SAN FRANCISCO -- The flight back from Kansas City wasn't very comfortable, but Tim Lincecum said his back definitely was feeling better Thursday afternoon than it did when he left Game 2 on Wednesday night. "Sitting on the plane was a little iffy but I just did my best to stay stretched out and keep loose," Lincecum said. "And now I'm just going to get it treated and see how it feels." Lincecum underwent an MRI on Thursday afternoon, and the results showed no structural damage. He is expected to be available when the World Series resumes with Game 3 on Friday night. "That's the plan," athletic trainer Dave Groeschner told The Associated Press via text message late Thursday. Lincecum also played catch at AT&T Park on Thursday evening. Even before the MRI results were known, San Francisco Giants manager Bruce Bochy sounded optimistic that Lincecum would be able to pitch again this series. "I'm more encouraged because he feels well, but still we have to cover ourselves and get this MRI," Bochy said. "So I can probably answer the question better once we get the result. If something's going on, then it's obvious we'll have to make the change. But my hope is he's fine, and if he is, then I think he'll be good to go tomorrow." Lincecum retired the first five batters he faced Wednesday before leaving when he felt tightness in his lower back. It was his first appearance in this postseason and his first action since the final game of the postseason more than three weeks earlier. The two-time Cy Young Award winner and San Francisco fan favorite was removed from the starting rotation in late August due to his inconsistency and was used only sparingly in relief. Bochy, however, seemed impressed enough by the pitcher's performance before the injury to use him more frequently if healthy. "I think with the long layoff it showed that he continued to work in the bullpen," Bochy said. "He had a great session three days ago, so he showed good command. He looked comfortable out there. So I didn't like the score of the game [7-2 in favor of the Kansas City Royals], but I was glad I was able to get him out there and get him some work. "I know he has to feel good about that outing. I know we do, so he could play a bigger role now if he's healthy." Lincecum said he would just have to wait and see how his back feels Friday. "Right now, I'm just going to go in the trainers room and get some treatment and see where that takes me," he said.