With the start of both the NBA and college hoops around the corner, it's time to take a first crack at a mock draft. No, this draft won't have the same hoopla that surrounded guys like Andrew Wiggins, Jabari Parker and Joel Embiid a year ago. But it will be a clear upgrade over the 2013 NBA draft that saw Anthony Bennett taken first overall. Right now just about every NBA scout and executive seems to agree that Duke's skilled big man Jahlil Okafor enters the season in the top spot, but there's some competition. Here's our first 2015 NBA mock draft, an early projection of all 30 first-round picks. 1. Philadelphia 76ers Jahlil Okafor | 6-foot-11, 270 pounds | C | Fr. | Duke Sixers GM Sam Hinkie finally takes a big man who is healthy. Okafor is different than Nerlens Noel and Joel Embiid. He's big, strong and has soft hands to go along with great footwork and terrific skills. Okafor is a below-the-rim type of big man, but NBA folks love him because he's a rarity these days in the league: Someone who can score in the post and also rebound at a high level. Currently, he goes into the season as the front-runner for the No. 1 overall selection. However, it's no lock. 2. Milwaukee Bucks Karl-Anthony Towns | 7-0, 250 | PF/C | Fr. | Kentucky The Bucks just need to accumulate the best talent, and Towns would look good with Jabari Parker. Towns has everything an NBA team seeks out in a draft pick: length, skill and athleticism. He can be effective on both ends of the court, and also has the versatility to score both inside and outside. He's a high-upside guy who should also produce plenty this season in Lexington. 3. Minnesota Timberwolves Emmanuel Mudiay | 6-5, 200 | PG | China The former SMU signee is set to play in China for the Guangdong Southern Tigers. Mudiay is a big, strong and athletic point guard will likely put up impressive numbers because, frankly, the league isn't all that good and he'll be able to overwhelm opponents with his athleticism. Minnesota is hardly enamored with Ricky Rubio at the position -- and he's certainly not worth max money. Mudiay and Andrew Wiggins would be fun to watch. 4. Boston Celtics Myles Turner | 7-0, 240 | C | Fr. | Texas He's a true 7-footer with skill and terrific hands -- and the Celtics need someone up front with length. Turner can block shots, rebound and can step out and make shots to the 3-point line. Plus, he has a developing low-post game (strength is currently an issue) and can score with both hands. Turner is also a high-character kid who plays with a motor and possesses tremendous upside. It would be difficult for Danny Ainge to pass on someone of Turner's size and skill. 5. Orlando Magic Kelly Oubre | 6-7, 205 | SF | Fr. | Kansas Magic GM Rob Henningan has loaded up on high-level athletes and Oubre would fit right in with those guys. He's long, athletic and is also a decent shooter. Just imagine a lineup of Elfrid Payton, Victor Oladipo, Aaron Gordon and Oubre . It will be interesting to see how much Oubre produces at Kansas this season, but he's a guy who is already high on NBA draft boards. 6. Sacramento Kings Kristaps Porzingis | 6-11, 220 | PF | Latvia The 19-year-old, who has been playing in Spain, withdrew from the 2014 draft -- largely because he isn't physically ready to play in the NBA. He's extremely long, skilled and mobile, but is rail-thin and needs to fill out his frame. He's got some Ryan Anderson in his game right now, as he's a skilled shooter who understands the game. He'd fit in well up front as a nice complement to DeMarcus Cousins. 7. Detroit Pistons Cliff Alexander | 6-8, 250 | PF | Fr. | Kansas With Greg Monroe's future in doubt, Stan Van Gundy needs another frontline player. And while Alexander is completely different than Monroe, he can come in and make an immediate impact due to his NBA-ready body. There's not a ton of skill, but Alexander is a physical specimen and a power player. He'll try to dunk everything around the rim and is a monster on the glass. He should put up impressive numbers this season at Kansas. Alexander and Andre Drummond would be quite a pair. 8. Utah Jazz Stanley Johnson | 6-7, 237 | SF | Fr. | Arizona Johnson is a power wing, someone who can get to the rim and finish through contact. Utah doesn't have anyone like Johnson. His perimeter shot still needs work, but it's improved significantly over the last year or so. Johnson also possesses toughness, leadership qualities and has shown a desire to defend. 9. Phoenix Suns (from Los Angeles Lakers) Willie Cauley-Stein | 7-0, 240 | C | Jr. | Kentucky WCS missed the 2014 NCAA tourney and was out the entire summer, and that's a major reason why he decided to stick around for his junior campaign. NBA folks are split on Cauley-Stein, but he's a physical specimen who can change a game on the defensive end. He's completely different than the offensive-minded Alex Len, and could be part of an effective two-headed monster down the road in the middle for the Suns. 10. New York Knicks Trey Lyles | 6-10, 235 | PF | Fr. | Kentucky Phil Jackson needs to accumulate some high-IQ guys in New York, and Lyles really knows how to play. It will be interesting to see Lyles' role this season with an abundance of big men in Lexington -- and the fact that he was injured for much of the summer and didn't play in the Bahamas. However, Lyles possesses exceptional skills; he can score around the basket, step out and hit shots, passes extremely well and also is a tremendous rebounder. 11. Houston Rockets (from New Orleans Pelicans) Mario Hezonja | 6-7, 200 | SF | Croatia Most scouts love his natural ability, as he can score, make plays, has terrific court vision and can create for both himself and others. But NBA folks are worried about the drama surrounding him. He didn't play much at the World Championships, and now he's been loaned out to another team. However, with the loss of Chandler Parsons, Hezonja is worth a shot for GM Darryl Morey. 12. Denver Nuggets Sam Dekker | 6-9, 230 | SF | Jr. | Wisconsin Dekker's stock rose significantly in the summer while playing against other college players at the LeBron James Skills Academy. It's all about the mental aspect for Dekker, who is a very good athlete and can score in a variety of ways. Denver has a need for a big, long, multi-dimensional wing, and Dekker fits the bill. 13. Charlotte Hornets Caris LeVert | 6-7, 200 | SG | Jr. | Michigan The Hornets, even after bringing Lance Stephenson on board, could use help on the wing -- especially guys who can do a variety of things like LeVert. The former Ohio University signee has become one of the top all-around players in the country. He possesses the length that NBA folks love, and he's a guy who can get to the basket and defend. Plus, he's proved he can shoot it from the perimeter. LeVert should be the go-to guy in Ann Arbor this season with Nik Stauskas gone. 14. Atlanta Hawks Montrezl Harrell | 6-8, 230 | PF | Jr. | Louisville Paul Millsap is a free agent after this season, and Harrell would be a great guy to plug in for that role. Harrell opted to return to school in hopes of becoming a top-10 pick rather than going somewhere toward the back half of the first round a year ago. He's a high-energy power forward who rebounds well and scores both around the basket and in transition. 15. Indiana Pacers Bobby Portis | 6-10, 230 | PF | Soph. | Arkansas David West and Roy Hibbert both have player options after this season, so getting help up front is a priority. Portis is a long, athletic and agile big man who should be the Razorbacks' most productive player this season. Portis could have been a first-rounder if he had left a year ago, and has a chance to climb into the lottery due to his physical abilities and coachability. 16. Brooklyn Nets Rondae Hollis-Jefferson | 6-7, 205 | SF |Soph. | Arizona His shooting still needs work, but NBA guys love his toughness, athleticism and his ability to rebound and defend. RHJ could have a breakthrough season with the departure of Aaron Gordon, and could be a good fit with the Nets as the team needs some young, athletic legs. 17. Phoenix Suns Justise Winslow | 6-6, 220 | SF | Fr. | Duke The Suns could use a big, physical wing who can lock guys down on the defensive end and also bring versatility to the table. Here's an example of his versatility: I once saw the 6-foot-6 Winslow run the point offensively and guard 6-foot-8, 250-pound Cliff Alexander on the defensive end. Winslow isn't a knock-down shooter, but he does everything else. He defends, can put it on the floor and gets to the basket -- and also handles and passes it well for a wing. 18. Toronto Raptors Aaron Harrison | 6-5, 210 | SG | Soph. | Kentucky The Raptors could use someone who can knock down shots from the perimeter, and Harrison has proved he can do that in huge moments. He's is a big, strong 2-guard who can score with his perimeter stroke and also by getting to the basket. He and his brother, Andrew, decided to return to school after their stock wasn't as high as they had hoped. 19. Washington Wizards Chris Walker | 6-9, 200 | PF | Soph. | Florida The Wizards have their backcourt of the future with John Wall and Bradley Beal, so it's frontcourt help that's needed in Washington. Walker is raw, and played sparingly last season after being cleared by the NCAA in January. However, Billy Donovan will have no choice but to throw the long and athletic power forward onto the court this campaign. Walker's skill level must improve, but he's still intriguing to NBA folks due to his physical gifts. 20. Memphis Grizzlies Brandon Ashley | 6-8, 230 | PF | Jr. | Arizona He's a hybrid forward who made significant strides last season before going down with a season-ending injury. Ashley is active, can step out and make shots from mid-range and also has improved on the defensive end. He will also have three years of college experience under his belt, and could help Memphis immediately. 21. Portland Trail Blazers Terry Rozier | 6-2, 190 | PG | Soph. | Louisville Rozier was up and down last season, largely because Russ Smith was on the team and Chris Jones was the starting point guard for much of the season. Now Rozier will get tons of minutes -- and he'll show that he can score and is also a tremendous rebounding guard. Portland doesn't have many immediate needs, and goes with the best player available here. 22. Dallas Mavericks Tyus Jones | 6-1, 185 | PG | Fr. | Duke The kid just knows how to play, plain and simple. He won't wow anyone with his size, speed or athleticism, but he is a pure point guard who can run a team and makes teammates better. That's exactly what Dallas could use. 23. Philadelphia 76ers (from Miami Heat) Wayne Selden | 6-5, 230 | SG | Soph. | Kansas He didn't have the type of season some were expecting as a freshman, but the power guard should show more assertiveness now that he is one of the veterans on the team. Selden has a good feel for the game and can score penetrating to the basket and also with his perimeter shot. The 76ers need talent on the wings, and Selden would help in that regard. 24. Golden State Warriors Jarell Martin | 6-9, 240 | F | Soph. | LSU Martin struggled out of the gates last season due to an injury, but should emerge this season as his confidence grows. He's 6-9, has nice length and skill, and can score in a variety of ways. Golden State has plenty of young talent, but could use a skilled forward with length. 25. Los Angeles Lakers (from Houston Rockets) R.J. Hunter | 6-5, 185 | SG | Jr. | Georgia State The Lakers need just about everything these days, including pure shooters. There aren't many guys who can flat-out shoot the ball as well as Hunter, who plays for his dad at Georgia State. He shot 40 percent from deep a year ago and played well in Las Vegas against some of the top college players in front of numerous NBA decision-makers. 25. Chicago Bulls Frank Kaminsky | 7-0, 235 | C | Sr. | Wisconsin You go with best player on the board at No. 26 and Kaminsky is just that. Frank the Tank burst onto the scene last season and thought long and hard about leaving Madison after the Badgers were knocked out in the Final Four. Kaminsky was a likely early second-rounder, but now he has confidence to go along with a versatile offensive game that enables him to score from the perimeter and also in the post. 27. Boston Celtics (from Los Angeles Clippers) E.C. Matthews | 6-5, 190 | PG | Soph. | Rhode Island He's somewhat of an unknown, except for the fact that he's not all that far down the road from Boston. Matthews is a lefty who spent much of his time playing off the ball as a freshman, but he'll split his time this season between both backcourt spots. He can shoot it from deep, has a terrific feel for the game and has nice size and a knack for scoring. The Celtics could use a guard who can really shoot it. 28. Oklahoma City Thunder Dakari Johnson | 6-11, 260 | C | Soph. | Kentucky He'll be the ideal replacement for Kendrick Perkins. Johnson is a back-to-the-basket inside presence who can take up space, rebound and score in the post. He's a below-the-rim guy, but he will have a lengthy career in the NBA because of the need for guys like him. 29. San Antonio Spurs Buddy Hield | 6-4, 208 | SG | Jr. | Oklahoma The Spurs love high-character, hard-playing guys, and Hield is a tough, hard-nosed guard who defends and makes shots. He played well in front of the NBA guys out in Las Vegas, and could help give San Antonio a potential starter someday at the 2-guard spot. 30. Cleveland Cavaliers Anthony Brown | 6-6, 215 | SG | Sr. | Stanford The Cavs will need a young shooter with size -- and that's where Brown fits the bill. Last season was the first in which the lanky 6-6 California native was truly healthy, and he shot 45 percent from beyond the arc. He has the size, length and ability to shoot it. Just imagine him with LeBron, Kevin Love and Kyrie Irving. 