MINNEAPOLIS -- Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson, who turned 29 in March, has no plans to be done playing football by the time the Vikings open their new stadium in 2016. He's aware enough of the NFL's business side, though, to know he might not be in Minnesota by that point. Peterson, who has mused about his future several times in the past year, did so again in an interview with USA Today on Wednesday, pointing out that the Vikings' decisions to trade Percy Harvin and let Jared Allen leave in free agency mean that no one is safe. "You couldn't have told me that at least two or three of those guys wouldn't still be here," Peterson said. "It just goes to show how the business is. Ultimately, the organization is going to do what they feel is best for their team. "If that's going younger or trying to save money, that's what it boils down to, no matter what type of talent you are. It's really the unfortunate part of the business, but I'm blessed to still be around, and hopefully, it doesn't happen to me one day. If it does, then, oh well. I'll go on and do something different with my career." Peterson's contract runs through the 2017 season, but he's the only running back in the league with a salary cap hit of more than $10 million this season, and the Vikings could cut him without any cap penalty after next season. The 2012 NFL MVP will be 30 by then, and he's not assuming anything about his future. If the Vikings did move on from him at some point, though, Peterson doesn't think fans would take it lightly. "I think the organization would take a heavy hit -- for real -- more so from the fan base," Peterson said. "I don't think it would be like a LeBron [James] situation where they're burning my jersey, this, that and the other. They might be doing [the opposite] and not buying some season tickets." Peterson also said he sees no reason to think he's slowing down and that he doesn't buy into the 30-year-old barrier. "The same thing I thought when they say ACL, you'll never come back from it,'' Peterson said. "It is what is. It doesn't apply to me. I have a totally different mindset and mind frame, so I'll just stay in my lane and let everybody else say what they have to say.'' Peterson prefers to compare himself to former teammate and noted NFL iron man Brett Favre than the average running back. "Well, I was talking to Favre,'' Peterson said when asked how long he wants to play. "Forty sounds like a good number.''