OAKLAND, Calif. -- The Golden State Warriors are taking no chances with injuries late this season, deciding to rest two banged-up starters while they jockey for playoff position in the crowded Western Conference standings. Swingman Andre Iguodala sat out the first of at least three straight games Tuesday night against the Orlando Magic because of tendinitis in his right knee, and center Andrew Bogut is out indefinitely with inflammation in his left ankle. Warriors coach Mark Jackson said that Iguodala has been dealing with tendinitis in his knee for more than a week. He also said Bogut "tweaked" his ankle in Sunday's win at Portland and didn't feel right after going through Tuesday's morning shootaround. "Hopefully we get these guys healthy and whole soon," Jackson said. Harrison Barnes started in Iguodala's place against Orlando. David Lee shifted from power forward to center, and Draymond Green moved into the starting lineup at power forward. The injuries come at a pivotal time for the Warriors, who were beginning a five-game homestand and looking to improve their position in the playoff chase. Golden State began Tuesday in sixth place in the West, 1½ games behind Portland and one game ahead of Dallas. Bogut could return for Thursday's game against Milwaukee, where he played his first 6½ seasons. Iguodala will sit out against the Bucks and Saturday against the San Antonio Spurs, who eliminated Golden State in the second round of the playoffs last year and has won the first two meetings versus the Warriors this season. After hosting the Spurs, the Warriors have five days off before Memphis visits Oracle Arena on March 28. Bogut sat out eight games previously this season, mostly due to a bone bruise in his left shoulder. Iguodala sat out 12 games earlier this season with a strained right hamstring, which hampered him for weeks after he returned. "The right thing to do is shut him down for three games and allow his body to heal, recover and get the proper treatment," Jackson said. "And we'll go from there." --- Antonio Gonzalez can be reached at: www.twitter.com/agonzalezAP