LOS ANGELES -- Golden State forward Andre Iguodala strained his left hamstring in the third quarter of the Warriors' 102-95 loss to the Los Angeles Lakers on Friday night. He did not return to the game, and his availability for Golden State's game against the Portland Trail Blazers on Saturday night is in doubt. "It worries me a little bit," Igoudala said. "We'll take it serious. I'm sure I'll be back really soon. My body has been pretty good to me so far. It'll be sooner than everyone thinks." But probably not as soon as Saturday night. "[I'm] not even walking right now," Iguodala said. "We're going to have an MRI in the morning." Iguodala grabbed his left hamstring as he was running down the court in the late stages of the third quarter. During a stop in play, Iguodala grimaced as he talked to Warriors coach Mark Jackson. Jackson then substituted Kent Bazemore for Iguodala, who limped to the locker room. "I knew it was something," Iguodala said. "Normally I can just run it off, or it will go away. But once I heard it pop, I knew it was serious. "I've never been hurt. I've had something that might have kept me out of a game or something really minor. I knew I'd be back in two days. But this one, it worried me." Iguodala played the full 82 games in five of his first nine seasons, most recently in 2009-10. The most games he missed was 15 in the 2010-11 season. The Warriors have a host of other injuries to deal with. Point guard Stephen Curry has missed the past two games with a concussion and is questionable for the game against the Blazers. He ran through some contact drills before the game against the Lakers, but his headache did not subside enough to allow him to play. He will go through a similar test before the game Saturday. Backup point guard Toney Douglas has an injured tibia, Jermaine O'Neal has a bruised right knee and strained groin, and Ognjen Kuzmic has a broken right hand. Festus Ezeli has yet to play this season while recovering from right knee surgery.