As we head into the final scoring period of the season, you will notice a big shake-up in the weekly Top 130. Since we only have a week and a half remaining in the regular season, games played and injuries will be a major factor in determining player values. I highly recommend taking a look at Neil Tardy's Fantasy Forecaster column to complement this week's rankings. Next week we'll rank the Top 100 for the 2014-15 season, but before we do, let's take a look at some of the biggest fantasy storylines and trends over the past year: In case there were any doubts, Anthony Davis proved that he is the real deal. As of Monday, Davis ranks fourth on our Player Rater when sorted by averages. Read that again. A second-year player who is still just 21 years old ranks FOURTH on the Player Rater! I had him ranked 14th overall in the preseason, moving him up to seventh overall just before opening night, but even I am a bit surprised at how quickly Davis has progressed as a player at the NBA level. He's done it with averages of 20.9 points, 10.1 rebounds, 1.3 steals and 2.8 blocks per game, but the most impressive aspect of Davis' game is his incredible efficiency: shooting 52.3 percent from the floor in 15.0 shot attempts and 78.9 percent from the line in 6.6 attempts per game. He should be a sure-fire top-5 pick next season, and it would not be surprising to see him go as early as second overall after Kevin Durant in many drafts. Players who can block shots and hit their free throws are extremely rare. This isn't a new phenomenon in the NBA, but of the 25 players who averaged 1.2 blocks or more this season, just six managed to shoot 75 percent or better from the free throw line (Davis, Serge Ibaka, Robin Lopez, Spencer Hawes, Roy Hibbert and Timofey Mozgov). Of the same 25, eight shot 60 percent from the line: Terrence Jones, Dwight Howard, Josh Smith, John Henson, DeAndre Jordan, Andre Drummond, Andrew Bogut and Miles Plumlee. This is exactly why players like Davis and Ibaka are so valuable in fantasy leagues, and why we should place a premium on any shot-blocker who can keep their free throw percentage above 70 percent, such as Pau Gasol, Taj Gibson, Joakim Noah and DeMarcus Cousins. John Wall found himself a jump shot in his fourth professional season, and it did wonders for his real life and fantasy value. Already a proven commodity in points (19.8), rebounds (4.1), assists (8.7), steals (1.9) and free throw percentage (80.2 percent), Wall added 1.4 3-pointers per game to his repertoire this season, catapulting him all the way up to 10th on our Player Rater. Wall shot 36.1 percent from downtown, despite not shooting better than 29.6 percent in his first three seasons; that's a heck of an improvement. Remember when Derrick Rose suddenly figured out how to shoot 3s and became an instant fantasy superstar (prior to the injuries, of course)? That reminds me of Wall's breakout this season. If this trend is for real -- and I think it is -- Wall will remain a top-10 fantasy player for a long, long time. Victor Oladipo is going to be an elite fantasy option sooner rather than later. Oladipo has posted a fairly modest (compared to his expectations) 14.2 points, 4.2 rebounds, 4.2 assists, 1.6 steals, 0.5 blocks and 0.9 3-pointers on the season, but he did so in just 31.8 minutes per game. His per-minute numbers are off the charts, and it's clear that he has the potential to be a dominant multi-category threat in fantasy leagues. I'd be shocked if he didn't make the leap to 35 minutes per game next season, and return second- or third-round value in fantasy leagues. I'm not giving up on Derrick Favors' future fantasy potential just yet. By most accounts, Favors underachieved this season despite turning in his best professional season with 13.0 points, 8.8 rebounds, 1.0 steals and 1.5 blocks. It should be noted, however, that his per-minute numbers remained impressive given that he earned just 30.1 minutes per game. He's also been fantastic in recent action with 14.5 points, 9.9 boards, 1.3 steals and 1.9 blocks over his past 10 games. Perhaps the 22-year-old was not quite ready to be the main post threat for the Utah Jazz, but there's no denying that he has the talent to take his game to the next level. He'll remain one of my top targets in next year's drafts, and should be a fantastic option for those in keeper leagues given his age and future potential. DeMar DeRozan has turned himself into a nice multi-category producer in fantasy leagues. Once a one-category specialist as a scorer, DeRozan posted career highs in almost every area this season with 22.8 points, 4.4 rebounds, 4.0 assists, 1.1 steals and 0.9 3-pointers per game. Most impressive has been his ability to get to the free throw line 7.9 times per game, where he shot 82.1 percent on the season. DeRozan has been mostly underrated this season, but I caution owners not to him heading into next year's drafts. He certainly benefited from the departure of Rudy Gay early in the season, and he currently ranks third in the league in minutes played with a whopping 38.4 per game. If the Toronto Raptors can get some help over the offseason, DeRozan may see his minutes and production tail off a bit next season. That said, he's no longer a one-category specialist, and should be a top 70-80 player next year depending on how the offseason shakes out.