The 2014-15 NBA season is in full swing and with it comes a new season of our Celtics Mailbag. With the benefit of 144 minutes of regular-season action, let's overreact (err, make educated guesses) about what the future holds for Boston's basketball squad. Q: The combination of Marcus Smart/Avery Bradley/Rajon Rondo on defense will be a nightmare for point guards. Seems like a good way to combat a star point guard-heavy NBA. -- @furnsey (via Twitter) A: There's no denying Boston's three-guard lineup is fun to watch, particularly with the amount of defensive pressure it can put on the opposition. So I'll admit I was surprised to find that when you home in on that three-man lineup, the group was minus-2 in plus/minus over 17 minutes on Monday night (though it was plus-7 in the second half, when Boston made its charge). It's a bit too early to know just how sustainable that lineup is, but clearly, there are going to be times when Boston simply elects to go small and challenge opponents to take advantage. Smart's fearlessness in defending bigger perimeter players -- we've already seen him on Joe Johnson and Dirk Nowitzki in 1-on-1 situations -- will give coach Brad Stevens even more confidence to go with that three-guard look. You'd think Boston's lack of shooting with that lineup would be its Achilles heel, but in a small sample of 25 minutes this season, the Smart/Bradley/Rondo combo has averaged 122.2 points per 100 possessions, Boston's second-best three-man combo among those who have played at least 17 minutes together. Bottom line: Let's see more of it because undersized Boston has no other choice but to lean on its most talented players. Q: The second half against Dallas -- is that a style of play the Celts can duplicate for 80 more games? -- @JohnnyBarlow (via Twitter) A: Stevens said last week that pressing for even half the game is not ideal for a team -- even one with Boston's perimeter depth. The Celtics are asking their players to exert an awful lot of energy when they are on the court, even if it's simply in half-court defense and pushing the pace after stops. As nice of an advantage as it can be, Boston's press defense works better as a changeup than a fastball. The Celtics can still disrupt ball-handlers without picking up at three-quarter or full-court lengths. What continues to resonate after the first three games is Boston's offense is completely tethered to its defense. When the Celtics generate multiple stops, it takes pressure off the offense and affords easier opportunities in transition. The Celtics absolutely have to allow their defense to fuel the offense and cannot endure the sort of defensive lulls that existed in the first quarter of both games in Texas. Q: Exciting beginning to the season. After three games, it seems as if Jared Sullinger and Kelly Olynyk aren't as effective together on defense, which is what Boston's team identity is. Brad Stevens has great perimeter defenders in Year 2 (Bradley, Smart, Rondo) but is lacking that athletic, defending presence in the middle to make it complete. Any chance we see more Tyler Zeller with either player? -- Trenton (Atlanta, Ga.) A: The Olynyk/Sullinger combo has logged only 34 minutes -- Olynyk's early foul trouble to start the season has diminished their time together -- but the pairing still has a plus-2.3 points per 100 possession differential. Unfortunately, everything that's going well offensively (a team-best 121.8 offensive rating for pairings with more than 30 minutes played) is offset by a cover-your-eyes defensive showing (team-worst 119.3 defensive rating for twosomes with more than 22 minutes together). The guess here is Stevens will give Sullinger and Olynyk time to continue developing as a pairing and maybe shuffle things up a bit and go with a heavier dose of Zeller when there's a need for a bit more of a pure center up front. Zeller hasn't played much at all next to either player, so it's hard to gauge the potential for those combos. Q: Jeff Green is looking very aggressive on offense. Can we expect more of that the rest of the way? -- @NHWizard (via Twitter) A: Impossible to know, right? Isn't that the biggest issue Boston fans have had with Green since he arrived: You just never know on a night-to-night basis what kind of effort he'll produce. You have to love how aggressive Green was going at the basket at times Monday night, particularly early on, when he shouldered Boston's offensive load (and really kept them in the game). As is the case with many on the Celtics' roster, Green's 3-point attempts have spiked, and he's one player who, I think, needs to make going at the basket a priority over the 3-pointer -- he's naturally going to get plenty of looks from the corner. His offensive rebounding in Monday's loss was nice to see and could really help Boston if maintained moving forward. Putting Green at the 4 in that three-guard lineup produces some interesting matchups for him. Q: Any chance the C's don't bottom out, don't trade Rondo and make a play for an Al Horford-type or some other quality big to make a playoff push? -- Sean (Brighton, Mass.) A: Absolutely. I wouldn't call it the most likely scenario, but it's not improbable. First off, I don't think the Celtics are going to bottom out. As challenging as their November schedule is, there's a chance to keep their confidence up if they can compete at home, where they play eight of their next 11 games. I'm really intrigued by Wednesday's game against Toronto because Boston gets an immediate chance to take what it learned on a tough Texas trip and see where it stands against the team that most peg to win the Atlantic Division. (Is it too early to reference how winning the Atlantic Division ensures a top-4 seed? OK, let's revisit that one in January.) We've maintained all along that Rondo is going nowhere. The Celtics' preference would seemingly be to have Rondo reassert himself as an elite point guard, sign a long-term extension -- even at max money, though before the real TV money should kick in -- and be here to lure additional talent to Boston as the Celtics transition back to contender mode. Even if the wheels come off for Boston this season, I'm not sure trading Rondo makes sense, especially because no one is going to meet Danny Ainge's asking price. For the sake of interest around the team and progress of their youngest players, it would be fun if we were talking about Boston as buyer instead of seller entering the new calendar year. Q: Is there any way to realistically rid ourselves of Gerald Wallace's contract? -- @e_sal513 (via Twitter) A: Not without giving up assets. And really, what's the rush at this point? Sure, I understand why fans might see a guy attached to the bench making $10.1 million and think, "What a waste of money!" But that ignores (1) the importance of taking on Wallace's contract in facilitating the blockbuster Nets swap and (2) how his salary isn't hindering Boston from maneuvering, at least at the moment. Eventually, the Celtics will desire to shed that deal, but every time a fan yearns for more James Young, they should remember he's here in large part because of Boston's ability to stomach Wallace's deal. Q: When will we see some more roster moves? -- @RotheGreat_ (via Twitter) A: Boston made two trades in January. I would expect things to heat up around the same time this season. Here's why: The Celtics have a loaded November schedule that is going to tell them exactly where they stand. Is there a chance for this team to compete for a low-seed playoff berth in the East? Or are they again bound for the lottery and needing to send out players who might interest contenders? Stevens noted last week how, in his final seasons at Butler, he would often schedule tougher competition early in the season so the Bulldogs would know where they stood by Christmas. He joked it ought to be the same here this year, after Boston navigates its harrowing November slate. If Boston is a lottery lock in January, maybe the team will start the process of examining whether contenders are intrigued by the likes of Marcus Thornton, with hopes of securing additional future assets. Q: How long do you think it will be before James Young starts getting some of Thornton's play time? -- Alex (Red's Army, N.J.) A: After missing most of the summer and much of the exhibition season, Young is clearly in catch-up mode. He was one of the few bright spots in Houston, but it's hard to get too worked up about six minutes of clean-up duty. Eventually, there's going to be an opportunity -- an injury or someone ahead of him underperforming -- and Young will get his chance. He must be patient and continue to put in the extra work to replicate what he's missing in game action. Young stands to benefit if Boston struggles this season, especially if any of the depth in front of him is eventually traded away. The Maine Red Claws open in 10 days and could be another avenue to get Young game reps, even if it's just shuttling him up to Portland on Boston's off-days and recalling him immediately to keep him around the parent club. (And I see what you did there with the location, Alex; keep up the good work with our friends at Red's Army) Q: Outside of a machete-juggling priest as a halftime show, what would shock you about this Celtics team this year? No trades? Lots of trades? Thirty-five wins? -- Andy (Herndon, Va.) A: First off, that machete-juggling priest came out of NOWHERE this summer. What would surprise me about the Celtics? I'd merely be surprised if they don't hang around a bit and make most games interesting. Maybe not rally-from-a-31-point-deficit interesting, but Stevens will make sure this team fights to the final horn. It's telling that the biggest surprise so far was simply that they didn't respond well to adversity in Houston, but it's encouraging to see progress one game later. I'd be surprised if Boston traded Rondo. I'd be surprised if this team just gave up and accepted a lottery fate. I'd be surprised if Vitor Faverani quit social media. Wait, where did Vitor's Instagram and Twitter go!? Buckle up. Anything could happen this season.