WALTHAM, Mass. -- Boston Celtics rookie guard Marcus Smart's left ankle swelled so badly after he stepped awkwardly on an opponent's foot on Friday night that team doctors had to cut off his shoe before they could begin tests to check the severity of the injury. That sight did little to calm Smart, who tried to steady his nerves in the aftermath of being stretchered off the court, all while nervous family members, including his mother, Camellia, phoned repeatedly trying to get an update on his condition. Smart could hardly believe the diagnosis when results came back. He emerged with only a severely sprained left ankle and some bone bruising. Team doctors suggested he could be back on the court in two to three weeks. "It's a night that I don't wish upon my worst enemy. No one should go through that," Smart said, talking to reporters Thursday for the first time since the injury. "I just thank God it came out and it's nothing worse than what it is." Smart reflected on how his mother, back in Flower Mound, Texas, had already begun pricing flights from Dallas to come check on him. "She said she was screaming at the TV, trying to catch a flight out here, and I told her, 'No, it's OK. Just calm down,'" Smart said. "That's what moms do, and that's why you love them." For the past six days, Smart has diligently undergone treatment aimed at expediting the healing process. And while the No. 6 pick in June's draft said he will not rush himself back onto the court, he still marvels at how he avoided more serious injury. "I felt like my foot was on fire," said Smart, who crumpled to the floor grabbing his ankle after stepping on the foot of Indiana's Lavoy Allen while driving hard at the basket in transition. "Looking back at the video, and listening to what [the TV commentators] had to say, they thought I broke it for a moment. I did, too. I couldn't put any pressure on it. I tried to get up, but they told me,l stay down. They didn't want to take any chances and just get an X-ray and an MRI." An X-ray at the arena revealed no structural damage, and an MRI at a local hospital confirmed the sprain and bruising. The entire Smart family -- and the Celtics organization -- breathed a collective sigh of relief. "Oh man, it's a blessing," Smart said. "I just thank God it wasn't a lot worse than what it could have been. You see a lot of guys go down with that type of injury and you only think the worst when the stretcher comes out. So I just have to thank God it was only a sprained ankle and a bone bruise." Smart said he's already getting stir-crazy watching from the sideline but hoisted a couple of flat-footed shots before meeting with reporters on Thursday afternoon after Boston's off-day workout. "I'm just taking it slow. Taking my time. Making sure I'm 100 percent," Smart said. "I don't really want to rush anything right now. Even though I'm going to feel better before I really am, I'm just trying to make sure that I am 100 percent before I step on the court again." Later, he added: "Oh, man, it's been eating me alive, especially because I love to play basketball. It's been taken away from me for right now, and I'm trying to stay engaged in practice, on the court. When I'm off the court, I'm getting treatment and stuff. Just seeing those guys out there, and knowing I can't do anything, it's tough." Teammates have encouraged Smart to wait until he feels 100 percent, especially given his full-throttle approach on the court. Veteran Marcus Thornton, recovering from a more minor ankle sprain suffered in practice this week, noted how the two were side by side on the trainer's table in recent days. And although Smart avoided serious injury, he's not quite ready to laugh at the precautions taken in getting him off the court. "I heard somebody bring it up," Thornton said. "And he didn't laugh too much about it."