BOSTON -- David Krejci made his much-anticipated return to the Boston lineup Tuesday night, but the Bruins experienced further hits with injury setbacks to Brad Marchand and Adam McQuaid. Marchand was scratched with an undisclosed injury he suffered during Saturday's game and defenseman Adam McQuaid left in the second period of Tuesday's 2-0 win over the St. Louis Blues after receiving what appeared to be a right hand/arm injury. Krejci missed the previous four games and nine of Boston's 20 games overall due to an ongoing, undisclosed injury. He saw his first game action since Nov. 6, logging 17-plus minutes of ice time and being reunited with linemates Milan Lucic and Seth Griffith. After the game, Krejci declined to discuss his health status in detail. "I felt good," Krejci said. "And you know what, I don't want to talk about injuries anymore. I don't like the word. It's been a long time so I just talk about the positives things and those negative words, I just don't want to hear about it." McQuaid appeared to get injured after blocking a shot by the Blues' Kevin Shattenkirk early in the second period. He was stuck on the ice for another minute before he was able to leave the ice and head to the locker room. He did not return for the remainder of the game. Afterward, Bruins coach Claude Julien did not have an update on McQuaid's status. "They just told me he wasn't returning and I don't even bother asking at that point," Julien said. "I still have to see what it is, and even if I do go and see I don't think I'll get the total answer. These guys have to have a look at him first and assess the whole thing." Staying on the ice has been a challenge for the injury-prone McQuaid in the past few seasons. He was limited to 30 games because of quad and ankle injuries last season. He got injured in a Jan. 19 game against the Chicago Blackhawks and, after numerous setbacks, he finally opted for surgery on his right ankle in May. He arrived at training camp healthy and ready to produce this season. With so many injuries to the defensive core, McQuaid has played well and returned to form, but if his latest injury keeps him sidelined for an extended period of time, it will continue his recent run of back luck. "Awful," Bruins defenseman Dennis Seidenberg said. "He had a tough injury last year, and to get that this year is not fun. He's very disappointed. He's been playing well, playing hard and he's just unlucky." Numerous members of Boston's blue line have already suffered injury setbacks this season, including Zdeno Chara (knee), Torey Krug (finger), Miller (shoulder) and David Warsofsky (groin). Marchand did not practice with the team on Monday, but was on the ice for the start of Tuesday's morning skate. He exited quickly, however, and Julien said the forward was not doing well and would not be available to play. Defenseman Kevan Miller was activated from IR earlier in the day, but was a healthy scratch. To make room, the Bruins sent defenseman Zach Trotman down Providence of the AHL.