NEW YORK -- A frustrated Carmelo Anthony said the New York Knicks failed to show fight in their 23-point loss to the Brooklyn Nets on Monday. "That's the only thing that kind of bothers me: Today we didn't even fight. I felt like we didn't fight as a team," Anthony said after the Knicks' 103-80 loss. "Them guys from the jump ball just came in and it felt like they owned us." The Knicks were embarrassed in Monday's loss to their crosstown rivals, shooting just 34 percent from the field. They allowed the Nets to hit 49 percent of their shots. "We couldn't get into defensive sets and [were] just scrambling and double-teaming and switching, basically just scrambling the whole game," Anthony said. The Knicks have lost four straight and enter play Tuesday tied with Cleveland for 10th place in the Eastern Conference. They are on pace to win just 30 games. "I didn't think we would be in this situation," said Anthony, who is expected to test free agency this summer. "I don't really know how to deal with situations like this. I'm learning. This is the first time for me." Interestingly, Anthony credited Nets coach Jason Kidd, an ex-Knick, for Brooklyn's success on Monday. "They played to the mismatches. That's something that Jason does well, even when he was here. That was his big thing: play to the mismatch," Anthony said. Tyson Chandler didn't knock New York's effort after the loss. Instead, he said the Knicks were "outschemed" by Brooklyn. "I think we came to play. They outschemed us," Chandler said. "They played to our defense as far their offensive scheme, knowing our rotations and knowing what we wanted to accomplish. Kind of putting us in vulnerable situations." Chandler's words could be interpreted as a thinly-veiled shot at Mike Woodson and the coaching staff. The Knicks were caught switching frequently on pick and rolls and late on rotations, which allowed the Nets to find open shooters all over the floor. "I don't want to switch. I personally don't like it. You come with a defensive plan and then every guy kind of mans up and takes his responsibility," Chandler said. "I think switching should always be your last resort." Chandler offered a similar critique of the Knicks' strategy on Friday after their loss to the Los Angeles Clippers. "We have to be a little more strategic about what we're doing offensively and defensively, understand who has it going and what's working (and) make it easier on guys out there," Chandler said after than 14-point loss. Those comments could also be perceived as a critique of Woodson and his staff. But Chandler insisted on Friday that the onus was on both players and coaches. "It's collectively from the coaches down, coaches and players," Chandler said. "What happens is normally when things like this happen you start to shift blame -- this player or that player or whatever. It's all of us. Everybody in this locker room and every coach that's signed on with the Knicks organization, all of our faults and we got to take it." Anthony believes the Knicks' four-game losing streak has impacted the team's confidence, which was at an all-time high after New York won five in a row earlier this month. "It seemed like everything was just going for us [during the winning streak], offensively, defensively, guys felt good about themselves," Anthony said. "There was a lot of confidence within the team, with individuals. Right now it seems we don't have that."