Carmelo Anthony isn't getting the "superstar" calls from referees, New York Knicks coach Mike Woodson says. In an interview Thursday on ESPN New York 98.7 FM's "The Stephen A. Smith and Ryan Ruocco Show," Woodson said that other big-name players receive better treatment from officials than Anthony. "Absolutely. And I'm not going to shy away from that, either. I think Melo gets hit more than ever," Woodson said in his weekly radio spot. "I've been at this thing 30 years, and sometimes I'm starting to wonder what's a foul and what's not a foul." Woodson specifically mentioned a play late in the Knicks' overtime loss to the Indiana Pacers on Wednesday in which he felt Anthony was fouled. No call was made. "The offense normally has the advantage when you're making plays at the rim," Woodson said. "... Melo draws a lot of contact, but he comes up empty a lot of times as well." Anthony said he was "done talking" about the referees after Wednesday's loss, the fourth straight for the Knicks (3-8). But he was vocal about his displeasure with the referees after a loss to the Houston Rockets earlier this month. "You look at that and you see the way that some guys get their calls; me, I got to get cut, you've got to see blood for me to get a call down there," Anthony said on Nov. 14. That night, Anthony had 11 free throw attempts. He attempted 30 shots from the field. Houston's James Harden attempted 18 free throws and 17 shots from the field. "That's where the frustration comes in," Anthony said then. Woodson hinted Thursday that Anthony wasn't being treated the same way by referees as other star players, such as LeBron James, Kobe Bryant and Kevin Durant. For what it's worth, Anthony is tied for fifth with the Sacramento Kings' DeMarcus Cousins in free throw attempts per game at 7.5. Durant leads the league with 12.8 attempts per game. Of course, that statistic fails to account for how many shots a player takes per game. It also doesn't account for whether a player is taking open perimeter shots or contested shots near the basket. In the Knicks' offense, Anthony frequently has the ball with his back to the basket. His post touches have increased since center Tyson Chandler went down with an injury Nov. 5, so opportunities to draw fouls have also increased. But only thirteen percent of Anthony's plays have ended in free-throw attempts this season. For comparison's sake, Houston's Dwight Howard leads the NBA in percentage of plays that end in a free-throw attempt (31.5), according to ESPN Stats & Information. That's one reason why Woodson feels Anthony isn't getting the calls he deserves. "They can't see everything and I understand that, and sometimes they miss calls," Woodson said. "Yeah, I thought he got bumped on [a play late in overtime Wednesday], but hell, he didn't get the call, so we have to move on."