GREENBURGH, N.Y. -- Carmelo Anthony has been second-guessing himself and believes he has been a "bit passive" in fourth quarters this season. Anthony has scored a combined 15 points and has no free throw attempts in the Knicks' three fourth quarters so far. The reigning NBA scoring champion has been preoccupied with trying to mesh with new teammates and adjust to lineups -- and it has him perhaps thinking too much. "For myself, maybe I'm second-guessing myself as well," Anthony said Monday after the Knicks' practice. "Maybe I'm a little bit passive out there, trying to do things that's out of the norm and trying to make people better at the wrong times. "That's where I'm second-guessing myself. And I'm second-guessing my shot, and should I take this or should I pass this. I got to get out of that mentality quick." The Knicks (1-2) certainly have a variety of issues to sort through, from turnovers to ball movement, shot selection and lineups. In fourth quarters this season, Anthony has shot 7-for-22, 1-for-5 from behind the arc and has a total of 15 points and 11 rebounds. Even more eye-opening is the fact that Anthony has yet to go to the line in the final quarter. During a tight fourth quarter in the Knicks' 82-81 loss to the Chicago Bulls last week, Anthony missed 5 of 7 shots, all the misses coming in the final 3:22. That included a potential game-winning shot just inside the 3-point line with two seconds remaining. During Sunday's 109-100 loss to the Minnesota Timberwolves, the Knicks sliced a 25-point deficit to two with 4:49 remaining. But Anthony, who had 22 points and 17 rebounds, missed his last three shots and had a turnover. Anthony has been trying to adjust to additions like Andrea Bargnani, Metta World Peace and rookie Tim Hardaway Jr. while not having the suspended J.R. Smith on the floor. "We got new faces on this team," coach Mike Woodson said. "I am not putting it all on Melo. "Melo is a big part of what we do here, and he has been great at it. I think at times he might be trying to make sure everybody is involved and being a part of it, and that is OK too. That is not getting us beat." The Knicks have had 53 turnovers and are shooting just 30 percent from behind the 3-point line. Woodson wants to see the team take care of the ball and improve its shot selection. "I think we're out there thinking too much, second-guessing ourselves out there," Anthony said. "When you do that, you're going to make mistakes, you're going to turn the basketball over. You see the difference when we're out there just playing basketball, and just having fun, going with our gut, going with our instinct -- it's night and day out there on the basketball court." Anthony assured everyone on Sunday that he's fully confident his shot -- and the Knicks' offense -- will be fine. It may just take a few days. "That time will come," he said. "We'll just take it one day at a time, that day will come. [We'll] learn from this and move on."