CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- Hornets forward Jeff Taylor will remain away from the team on a paid leave of absence until the NBA and law enforcement officials conclude their investigations into domestic violence charges that led to his arrest last week in Michigan. Hornets general manager Rich Cho said Monday that the team learned enough about Taylor's arrest to deem it necessary to remove the third-year reserve from all team-related activities. "We felt as an organization that it was appropriate to act decisively and swiftly, and that's what we decided to do," said Cho, who addressed the incident publicly for the first time Monday. "We were satisfied with the process. It was an organizational decision. We worked with the NBA throughout this whole process." Hornets players say they have confidence in how the team is handling Taylor's ordeal and won't allow it to be a distraction. "We support him 100 percent, but it's not really our place," guard Kemba Walker told ESPN.com on Monday during Charlotte's media day. "We don't know too much about the story. I can only speak for myself, but we have to try to sit back and let the higher-up people handle it." Taylor, 25, was arrested Thursday at a Marriott hotel in East Lansing, Michigan, and charged with misdemeanor assault against his girlfriend, assault and battery against a male hotel employee and malicious destruction of property estimated between $200 and $1,000. East Lansing Police confirmed they responded to a report of domestic violence at the hotel at around 1 a.m. but disclosed no further details because the case is ongoing. Taylor was released from custody later Thursday from Ingham County (Michigan) jail on $5,000 bond and pleaded not guilty to the charges. He is scheduled to appear at an Oct. 8 pretrial court hearing. After being made aware of the arrest, the Hornets issued a statement Thursday night stating that it was "a matter that we take very seriously." On Friday, the Hornets followed up by announcing Taylor would not be allowed to practice or participate in team functions while the NBA investigates the case. The league office issued a statement in support of the Hornets' decision to remove Taylor from team activities. Taylor could not be reached for comment. Todd Ramasar, who was listed as Taylor's NBA agent, did not immediately return a message left on his cellphone Monday. Cho would not reveal specific details of the team's initial investigation into the arrest but did say he spoke with Taylor about the alleged incident. Cho said he is not aware of any potential surveillance video that may have recorded the altercation in the hotel. "We have a few details," Cho said. "But really, the NBA is investigating the matter, and we're going to let the process play out. I don't want to get into hypotheticals." A player bio page was still devoted to Taylor in the preseason media guide the Hornets distributed before Monday's media day. Charlotte selected Taylor with the 31st overall pick in the 2012 draft out of Vanderbilt, and he has averaged 6.6 points and 2.0 rebounds in 103 games through two NBA seasons. Taylor was arrested just three days after NBA commissioner Adam Silver announced in a news conference in New York that the league intended to "take a fresh look" at its policies regarding incidents of domestic violence. This is the latest in a recent line of cases involving NBA and NFL players, who came under increased fire when former Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice was caught on surveillance video knocking his then-fiancée unconscious in a casino elevator in February. Rice was released by Baltimore earlier this month and is on indefinite suspension. At least three other NFL players, including Carolina Panthers defensive end Greg Hardy, were recently arrested for domestic violence or have cases pending in the legal system. Taylor is the second NBA player arrested in as many months on domestic violence charges. Former No. 1 overall pick Greg Oden is awaiting a November trial for his Aug. 7 arrest on felony battery charges after being accused of punching his ex-girlfriend at least three times in the face and breaking her nose. New National Basketball Players Association executive director Michele Roberts said last week that more preventative measures, such as counseling and outreach, need to be part of league policies on domestic violence. "Our expectation is that no disciplinary action should be or would be taken by the team or the league going forward, prior to objective deliberation and full consideration of the facts in this matter," Roberts said in a statement released Friday after Taylor's arrest. This is the second time this offseason the team has dealt with a player being accused of violence. Rookie guard P.J. Hairston faced assault charges last month for allegedly punching a teenager twice during a pickup basketball game. Hairston remains with the team and will open training camp Tuesday. Asked Monday why Hairston was allowed to continue team activities and Taylor was not, Cho said, "Every situation is different. We just feel like this was the right thing to do." Cho also said he was uncertain how long Taylor will be away from the team. "It's disappointing, but we're going to have to let it play out and see what happens," Cho said. "Jeff is also afforded his due process. I've spoken to Jeff, but I would like to keep the conversations between Jeff and I [kept] private."