Team USA coach Mike Krzyzewski said it will be up to the Chicago Bulls whether Derrick Rose plays in this summer's FIBA Basketball World Cup as the former MVP recovers from a second knee surgery. "We get information from all the clubs and we know that the most important thing for these guys is their health and what they're doing with their parent teams," Krzyzewski said Thursday. "And so our communication with the Bulls, or any organization, is straightforward and we'll follow their guidelines." Krzyzewski is hopeful Rose, who tore his meniscus on Nov. 22 and has been ruled out for this season, will be able to play this summer in Spain. "Well, I'm hoping 100 percent," Krzyzewski said. "We're all hoping that he'll be part of the group that comes in there. And then just because we haven't seen him play to see how he's doing. We'd never try to put him in harm's way for his career. But if he's ready, we'd welcome Derrick. Derrick's one of the great guys, in addition to being an outstanding player. He's a great team guy. And that's why we want him part of USA Basketball." Rose was selected as one of 28 players to participate in Team USA's training camp this summer in Las Vegas. Krzyzewski said it would be the Bulls' decision whether Rose participates in that camp. Chicago coach Tom Thibodeau is an assistant on the Team USA staff and Krzyzewski said he would be in communication with the Bulls in regards to any restrictions Rose may have on him as he continues his rehab. The key in Krzyzewski's mind is that if Rose is cleared to train in Las Vegas. "If they allow him to come, then that means he's allowed to play," Krzyzewski said. "We've had it before where the club says, 'We don't think he should participate this summer,' and we understand that. That's why we have a pool of players and not select just 12." The Bulls remain hopeful that Rose will be able to participate for Team USA this summer. Thibodeau has noted the importance of Rose's experience in the 2010 World Championships in Turkey, where Rose was one of the point guards on the team that won gold and then came back to the NBA and became the youngest MVP in league history during the 2010-2011 season. "Our thinking is that it would be a terrific opportunity for him," Bulls general manager Gar Forman said Thursday in a text message. "And we would be supportive of him playing." Rose has repeatedly said he would like to play for Team USA this summer, most recently during his last media session on Feb. 12. "For sure," Rose said. "If my leg is feeling healthy and I'm there, then I'm all in. Of course I want to play for that team. Playing for that team helped the year that I won MVP, just getting in a groove, so I'm excited if I am able to play in it."