LOS ANGELES -- The Los Angeles Clippers transformed themselves from laughingstock to championship contender a little more than two years ago when they traded for Chris Paul, but Monday's 107-88 loss to the Phoenix Suns might have been the team's worst since acquiring the All-Star point guard. "This is a tough one for us," Paul said after the game. "It might have been one of the worst ones since I've been here." The Clippers fell behind 11-1 to start the game, and trailed by 21 points in the second quarter and 29 points in the third quarter. It was such a thorough defeat that the Clippers were booed at halftime and at the end of the game for the first time this season. "They beat us in everything," Paul said. "We can't say that we beat them in anything, and that doesn't happen too many nights in the NBA. This was just an old-fashioned butt whuppin' and they did it from beginning to end and we got to move on." Clippers coach Doc Rivers has grown tired of talking about the Clippers' inability to get motivated for games as if he's talking about a championship team going through the motions during the regular season. As he walked into his postgame news conference, he said, "You guys are still here? I would have left at halftime. I tried to but they wouldn't throw me out." "We've done nothing," Rivers said. "That's the point I've been making all year. They don't give a trophy after 25 or 30 games. We've done nothing. Did we win, did we go to the Finals last year? Did I miss something?" Blake Griffin was equally disappointed in the outcome, saying, "It's a really embarrassing effort by us -- offensively, defensively, really every category of the game. We didn't do the thing we talked about coming into the game, and it starts with me. I need to do a better job from the beginning. We got to set the tone and we didn't do that tonight, and they walked all over us." As bad as the loss and the Clippers' performance were, Rivers didn't want to make more of it than what it was. He said he didn't think the loss was as bad as the back-to-back close losses to the Golden State Warriors and Portland Trail Blazers last week. "It's not the worst loss," Rivers said. "Portland and Golden State were the worst losses. This is the worst we've played."