Los Angeles Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw picked up Cy Young and MVP awards this week, the first National League pitcher to do so in a season since Bob Gibson in 1968. He also picked up a new endorsement. On Friday, Kershaw was signed on to be an endorser for Subway, the largest food franchise by number of stores in the United States. "The key for us is authenticity," Subway chief marketing officer Tony Pace said. "We found out that Clayton would stop by a Subway before going to the ballpark, and that meant a lot to us that he was a fan of the brand." Kershaw has already appeared in advertising for the sandwich chain -- in an ad in USA Today with American League MVP Mike Trout, who also endorses the brand. Aside from Subway, Kershaw has deals with Wilson for his glove and Under Armour for his shoes. He also signed a deal with Muscle Milk last April. "His vision, passion and work ethic, on and off the field, align with our brand and company philosophy," said Nikki Brown, chief marketing officer for CytoSport, parent company of Muscle Milk. "We've utilized him regionally, but he's also become one of our marquee national athletes, as well." For a pitcher with three Cy Youngs, a league MVP and a no-hitter at the age of 26, and in the second-largest market in the U.S., an argument can be made that Kershaw is still underexposed. "It's a bit surprising that he has done what he has done in Dodger blue and he's not all over the place," Pace said. "But there tends to be a little bit of a lag effect between success and brand longevity in the marketplace." As accolades have mounted for Kershaw, so too has national interest. Kershaw likely will finish the year second in jersey sales behind retiring New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter, who was the only player leading the left-hander in sales when baseball reported the numbers at the end of the regular season. Fanatics Authentic, the memorabilia division of Fanatics, the largest online licensed sports retailer, has been selling Kershaw-signed baseballs for $200. "We've seen more of an immediate jump on signed items from guys that have just won the World Series MVP than we've seen with regular-season MVP or Cy Young winners," said Victor Shaffer, executive vice president of Fanatics Authentic. "MVP and Cy Young winners do, however, cash in over time." Shaffer said the company has seen a rise in interest for Kershaw collectibles, but he isn't sure what the demand will be when the price rises for balls that have the multiple Cy Young/MVP inscription.