When I made my triumphant return to Cleveland, the first place I ended up was in jail. I grew up in a family full of Browns fans and spent more than my fair share of Sundays as a kid with tears frozen to my cheeks inside the old, ignominious igloo Cleveland Municipal Stadium. When the city tore the stadium down in 1996, some of the rubble was used to construct artificial fishing reefs in Lake Erie. And I had heard that, after some particularly bad storms, the lake would regurgitate pieces of the stadium's coffee-colored bricks onto the shoreline east of downtown -- as if, like the rest of us, even a 10,000-square-mile lake could not fully digest the decades of bad voodoo contained in those stadium bricks. So when I was assigned a story for ESPN The Magazine's latest Cleveland Issue -- on the deeper meaning behind the Browns' choice at quarterback and the city's remarkable rebirth -- my first stop back in town was to what I thought was the entrance to the Cleveland Lakefront Nature Preserve. This park, it just so happens, shares a service road with a lake-front detention center. And by the time I realized my mistake I was halfway into the jail parking lot. Luckily, I managed to parole myself without too much trouble, park my car across the street and hike into the waterfront preserve. Alas, my search for bits of the Browns old stadium as well as artifacts from my own past only turned up one large, bloated, chalky-white dead carp and several empty cans of Busch. I don't know, exactly, what to make of that metaphor on a personal level, except to say this: You can waste your time fishing around for buried, smelly pieces of Cleveland's past, or you can lift your head up and witness something truly remarkable -- a town and a team's Rust Belt rebirth. After that initial misstep on the shores of Lake Erie, that's what I did. And here are a few of the observations I came away with. •   •   • If you think Browns corner Joe Haden looked out of place in Week 3 during the Ravens' game-winning drive, shoot, you should have seen him in July trying to bat during his own charity softball event. During the home run derby that preceded the game, Haden looked like Lucille Ball swinging a broom at a bat in her kitchen. It was so bad that when Haden came up in the eighth inning, all the fielders sat down in the grass to try to help him reach base. (Another personal "highlight" from the game, held at the Lake County Captains quaint minor league park east of the city, was when agent Drew Rosenhaus' cell phone flew out of his pants while he was trying to run out a single, and the players all dove for it like they were saving a Panda cub.) Afterward, Haden was signing autographs when I overheard the first of many OIC (Only In Cleveland) exchanges with a rather rotund fan: "Joe! Are we gonna beat LeBron to that title? OK, ya know what, SIGN MY BELLY!" •   •   • Officially, Brian Hoyer was named the Browns' starting quarterback late in the preseason, and he has solidified his standing with his play so far: zero turnovers and a 97.5 passer rating. But unofficially he really locked up the job at Haden's charity event. Deep in the throes of yet another social media snafu, Johnny Manziel was nowhere to be found. (In fact, the only thing he seemed to excel at this summer was getting the hell out of Cleveland. I couldn't care less what he does with his free time, but if his team of expert marketers and handlers don't think people notice this kind of stuff, they should check out what's being worn at FirstEnergy Stadium on game day. Yes, Manziel leads the NFL in jersey sales, but in the heart of Browns country, his jersey still trails Tim Couch's old No. 2 jersey.) Anyway, Hoyer, on the other hand, was one of the first players to arrive, bum knee and all. Baseball is kinda his thing. As a sophomore pitcher in high school, he led St. Ignatius in Cleveland to a state title. On this night, Hoyer spent time throwing grounders, playing catch and just hanging out with his receivers, including Miles Austin. In the end, talent and execution will always win out, I know. But this kind of stuff matters, too. It really does. And, like I said, teammates and fans noticed. The loudest applause of the night came when the announcer introduced Hoyer before his first at bat: "He's one of your own. He's from Cleveland. Our quarterback, Brian Hoyer." Still, it remains hard for any of us to understand the counterintuitive notion that an undrafted, unremarkable Big Ten quarterback like Hoyer, because he played in a pro-style offense at Michigan State and St. Ignatius, is actually better equipped to excel in the NFL than Manziel, the most highly decorated player in all of college football. But think of it like this: NFL QB and college QB are actually two very different positions that require two very different physical prototypes and skill sets. It would be like expecting a really good taxi driver to excel on a NASCAR track. Of course, conflict and divide, the fuel of any respectable quarterback controversy, runs marrow deep in both the history and nomenclature of Cleveland. Founded in 1796 by Yale graduate Moses Cleaveland, the town's name has the distinction of being a contronym, one of the few words in the English language that is its own antonym. To "cleave" can mean "to split, violently" as well as "to adhere, faithfully." In other words, what better place for Hoyer and Manziel to duke it out than in a town whose very name -- to divide while also bringing together -- could double as the definition of a quarterback controversy? •   •   • Few people have a better grasp on Cleveland's rebirth than Richey Piiparinen, the director of the Center for Population Dynamics at Cleveland State University. "We have to evolve who we are as Clevelanders," he told me. "To do that we have to find a way to let go of this modest Midwestern blue-collar native way but still hold on to who we are. We can still be hard working, but the work has changed. We have to be open to new ideas, new ways of doing things and new people. Johnny Manziel epitomizes that larger collective change in Cleveland and, moving forward, it's very important for Cleveland to identify with that part of itself." One of the many things Piiparinen and I talked about was the possible negative side effects of an athlete having too deep a connection to the team he plays for. If the tiniest twinge of pressure can dramatically alter an athlete's performance, are both Hoyer and LeBron James doomed to fail because of how acutely aware they are of what a championship would mean to this town? We'll see. Another OIC moment: First day I was in town, I was walking down Superior Avenue on my way to check out the ornate football shaped ballroom of the Renaissance Hotel, where the 1964 Browns celebrated Cleveland's last world championship, when a guy near the bus stop jumped in front of me while ranting about the (imaginary) people he believed were shooting at him. Just as his rant reached its crazed crescendo, however, the two of us stopped dead in our tracks and stood perfectly still -- dumbfounded, shoulders slumped, mouth agape -- as a dozen young, helmet-wearing professionals in pressed slacks and loafers, the highly educated "brain-gainers" fueling Cleveland's rebirth, floated by in a giggling swarm of Segways. •   •   • Heard a lot of great sports radio while I was in town, but nothing topped this line shouted out after another poor showing by Hoyer in the preseason: "I'm already tired of the 'Oh but he's a hometown guy' argument. YOU KNOW WHAT? John Wayne Gacy was a hometown guy, too." •   •   • Most of the awesome photos of Hoyer in The Magazine piece are in Cleveland institution Sokolowski's University Inn. Besides the world's best pierogies, you could spend an entire day just looking at the Cleveland artifacts that line the dark walls of the restaurant just over the river in the Tremont neighborhood -- a place so classically American it was the setting for both "The Deer Hunter" and "A Christmas Story." As you wait in line for your food, you pass a row of old yellow seats salvaged from Cleveland Municipal Stadium that sit under a shelf buckling from the weight of hundreds of bobbleheads. Around the corner, across from a collection of Lou Reed memorabilia and a signed pencil drawing of Bernie Kosar, the wall is decorated with a photo of Pete Rose flipping off the camera next to a signed glossy of Hall and Oates. It's like being transported back into your childhood basement, though this time, your mom's the world's best cook. •   •   • The centerpiece of the expansive, picturesque Lake View Cemetery is the bas relief monument to President James A. Garfield and the gleaming, towering obelisk of oil tycoon John D. Rockefeller's family. But the OIC moment here is that buried just a few feet from G-man Eliot Ness is graphic novelist and curmudgeonly Cleveland patron saint Harvey Pekar, whose gravestone says: "Life is about women, cigs an' bein' creative." Sounds like a Manziel fan to me. •   •   • Even with the Gay Games, the Republican National Convention in 2016, LeBron's return and the city's remarkable economic rebirth, Cleveland still has a long way to go to match its heyday of 1948 when, in the span of 200 days, the Indians, Browns and hockey-playing Barons all won world championships. •   •   • When challenged by outsiders this summer, Bills fans proudly doubled-down on their Buffalo-ness, if you will, with the whole glorious "F You Bon Jovi" campaign -- which, if you ask me, will always rank as one of the greatest moments in Buffalo history. But when LeBron decided to return to Northeast Ohio, Cleveland fans camped out on his front lawn kinda like overeager, screeching boy-band fans. I went to LeBron's house several days after his announcement, and there were still lines of cars and minivans (with plates from New York and Indiana) that had folks jumping out to take selfies in his driveway. It all seemed very unbecoming and un-Cleveland to me. But then, Hoyer almost seemed to get choked up when I brought up LeBron's letter. "The whole blue collar, you earn everything you get mentality is what defines this city and this team," Hoyer told me. "That's what makes Cleveland so special, and as a team we're trying to embody that same kind of mentality. So when LeBron brought that up in his letter, that really touched me. This is not New York, it's not L.A., it's not Chicago or Miami -- this is a hard-working Midwestern blue-collar town that loves its football." A quick side note on LeBron's digs: He built his massive, modern, expansive compound right in the middle of a fairly typical middle-class neighborhood of decent-sized, decades-old colonials. It looks a little like Donald Trump threw up a new shiny-glass, high-roller casino next door to the Hecks in Orson, Indiana, on "The Middle." •   •   • On my way back from Akron, I stopped by one of Browns owner Jimmy Haslam's Pilot Flying J gas stations. Across from the condom machine and faux designer cologne dispenser in the men's room, there are plaques, signed by "Jimmy" himself, pledging to deliver the cleanest restroom experience possible. So far, that kind of micromanaging hasn't helped clean up the Browns. •   •   • From 1946 to 1955, the Browns played in 10 straight championship games and won seven. So for our parents, the Cleveland Browns were the New York Yankees of football. I get it. But think about this: If you are 20 and grew up in Northeast Ohio, you have never known the Browns as anything but a national punchline. So from a marketing standpoint, drafting Manziel -- or "Clickbait Jesus," as Cleveland Scene newspaper recently tabbed him -- to excite and engage a new generation of Browns fans is pure genius. If he can actually play quarterback on this level, well, that's a bonus. That business strategy really comes through on game day outside FirstEnergy Stadium, where there is zero nostalgia for the team's history. Outside the southeast corner of the stadium is a row of 3D brass plaques featuring all-time greats such as Otto Graham, Paul Brown, Lou Groza and Marion Motley (who, by the way, averaged 5.7 yards per carry), who seem to be cringing while being forced, for all eternity, to watch as fans in the pregame Fun Zone fly by on a zip line, climb a rock wall, play video games and listen to a house DJ spin tunes. •   •   • I had a lot of "Am I really in Cleveland?" moments, but none quite like a stretch in Playhouse Square that started with outdoor yoga and a farmer's market, a Blue Angels air show overhead during the afternoon, and a free, outdoor viewing of "The Hunger Games" at night. You know Cleveland has turned things around when the lamest part of town is the Rock And Roll Hall of Fame -- perhaps the last place in the world where you can still buy CDs while gazing upon U2 concert relics that are two decades old. (A few highlights: Muddy Waters' blood red 1958 Fender called Hoss; a hand-written Joy Division lyric sheet which they used "LWTUA" because they got tired of writing out "Love Will Tear Us Apart"; a 1979 U2 concert poster promoting an opening band called the Virgin Prunes; and the eggplant-colored minivan used on tour by Rage Against the Machine that still has the decidedly un-anarchist parking permit sticker in the back window.) •   •   • All the chanting for Manziel and Hoyer reminded me of the time I once tried to interview Bill Belichick under the stands at Cleveland Municipal Stadium. Fans leaving the game could just make us out through the girders and walls, and they started chanting "BILL MUST GO!" so loudly that Belichick sheepishly suggested we step inside a nearby construction trailer to finish the interview. This is the problem with crowd sourcing, I suppose. Browns fans -- God love 'em -- ran Belichick, and one of the greatest coaching staffs ever assembled (nine future NFL head coaches and GMs and three future major-college head coaches), out of town because he dared to bench native son Kosar. Afterward, Kosar never won another game as a starting QB. Belichick, of course, went on to become one of the most successful coaches in NFL history. At least until this past Monday night, that is. •   •   • After his photo shoot for The Mag, Hoyer stuck around Sokolowski's for a while and even got behind the counter to serve lunch to diners. Even at 1-2 as a starter this season, Hoyer has to be the easiest guy in the NFL to root for. Which makes it only harder to admit that, sooner or later, Johnny Cleveland is gonna get a shot to run the Browns. In fact, of the 91 quarterbacks taken in the first round through 2013, 58 percent (and two of the three drafted in 2014) started before the halfway point of the season. It's ironic that for Hoyer to keep the starting job, he needs to start playing more like a "new" Cleveland guy, especially at crunch time. He needs to be creative, innovative and find new ways to conquer age-old problems. Meanwhile, to emerge as Johnny Cleveland, Manziel needs to prepare and play more like an "old" Cleveland guy. He needs to mature, put the work in off the field, stay disciplined and learn to grind out games from inside the pocket. Until Hoyer becomes more new Cleveland or Manziel becomes more old Cleveland, all the Browns really have are two good backups and zero franchise quarterbacks. Around here, I believe they still call that a mistake on the lake.