Cleveland Cavaliers guard Kyrie Irving and Cleveland Browns receiver Josh Gordon seem to be having a spat. Call it Cleveland's version of "Star Wars." Irving told Gordon to "mind his own business," and Gordon responded with a smirk on Twitter that he had "hit a nerve" with Irving. After practice on Monday, Irving said he had spoken with Gordon. "I just let him know that the whole situation kind of got blown out of proportion," Irving told media members at the team's facility. "Just in terms of there was no disrespect on my end to him or anything that he does. I have the utmost respect for him. But what I was trying to clearly say was reiterate that what goes on with us we kind of want to keep it within us."  The media and Twitter back-and-forth took place over the weekend. It stemmed from Gordon's visit to ESPN on March 27, when he appeared on several shows and did a few interviews. On "First Take," Gordon was asked about the perceived rift between Irving and guard Dion Waiters, both top-four picks in the NBA draft. "I talked about it with Dion," Gordon told anchor Skip Bayless. "He's my neighbor in my building, so we hang out all the time. I'm aware of the rift in the locker room. That's just alpha males and supreme athletes trying to share the spotlight." He said he hoped the two got along but supported the idea that one of the two would have to be traded. "I'm not opposed to that," Gordon said. "It might play out better." Waiters also responded to the situation after Monday's practice, saying it is "total B.S." that he and Irving do not like each other. As for Gordon's statements, Waiters said: "That's his opinion, and everybody has their own opinion. He's entitled to say what he said." Before he said that he'd spoken with Gordon, Irving responded pointedly to Gordon's remarks over the weekend. "Guys like Josh Gordon need to stay in his sport and mind his own business," Irving told the Akron Beacon Journal. "Does he still play for the Browns? I'll continue to root for the Browns, but in terms of this stuff here, what goes on in this locker room, he needs to stay out of it." Gordon took to Twitter on Sunday to respond to Irving's comments, starting with the abbreviation for "shaking my head." He later added: Irving expressed exasperation all week about reports that he is unhappy in Cleveland. And his posts on Twitter showed his frustration.