Andrew Wiggins will get the opportunity to begin his NBA career alongside LeBron James, according to Cleveland Cavaliers coach David Blatt. Blatt refuted speculation that the Cavaliers could part with Wiggins in a potential deal to land Kevin Love, telling reporters that he is unaware of any plans to trade the No. 1 overall pick. "There's no reason or cause for worry on his part because Andrew's not going anywhere, as far as I know and as far as the club has expressed," Blatt told reporters Saturday following the Cavaliers' Summer League practice in Las Vegas. The Cavaliers made the biggest splash of the offseason by convincing James to return to Cleveland, ending the Akron native's four-year stint with the Miami Heat. Love is "intrigued" by the idea of joining James in Cleveland and would commit to a long-term deal with the Cavaliers, a source told ESPN on Friday. But Love's current team, the Minnesota Timberwolves, want Wiggins in any deal for Love, sources told ESPN. Cleveland opened trade talks with Minnesota by offering Dion Waiters, Anthony Bennett and a first-round draft pick -- a deal that was declined by the Timberwolves, sources told ESPN. The Cavaliers likely will need to find a third team in order to acquire Love in a trade that doesn't include Wiggins. Sources told ESPN that the Cavaliers have informed Wiggins he will not be traded, and Blatt affirmed the franchise's commitment to the former Kansas star, saying he is looking forward to watching him mesh with James. "I would think for a guy like Andrew, to have the opportunity to play with arguably one of the best players of all time, and to learn from him and to be tutored by him and to play alongside him -- which he will -- I gotta think that's a tremendous boost to his confidence and his comfort level and probably his motivation," Blatt told reporters. Wiggins scored 18 points in his professional debut Friday, helping the Cavaliers to a 70-68 Summer League win over the Milwaukee Bucks and the draft's No. 2 pick, Jabari Parker. One day later, the 19-year-old guard reiterated his excitement to play with James. "The best player comes to your team," Wiggins told reporters. "It's going to be a great learning experience for me to play alongside the best in the game."