NEW YORK -- Coach Mike Woodson called the Knicks' effort "unacceptable" Sunday and said his team lacked pride after a 31-point loss to the San Antonio Spurs. "We didn't compete tonight. That's just unacceptable," Woodson said. "Right from the start, we let our offense, shots that we missed, dictate how we defended on the other end." The Knicks fell behind 10-0 to start the game and trailed by as many as 18 in the first quarter. They heard boos throughout the game from the sold-out Madison Square Garden crowd. After the game, Woodson was asked if the Knicks showed any pride in the second half as the Spurs' lead ballooned to 37 points. "No. No. Not at all. It's something that will be addressed [in Monday's practice]. It's just unacceptable," the coach said. "It's my job to push them through it and try to get them over the hump. I know we're a better team than what we've shown." Carmelo Anthony agreed with his coach's assertion. "It was embarrassing for us to come here on our home court and lose a game like this," said Anthony, who scored 16 points on 10 shots and sat for most of the fourth quarter. "It wasn't about losing a game. It was just how we lost the game. We didn't compete today, and it showed out there on the court." The loss was one of the worst in Woodson's 112-game tenure and continued a nightmare start to the season for the Knicks. New York dropped to 2-4 after Sunday's defeat and is 1-3 at home. The Knicks started last season 6-0 and didn't lose their third home game until Jan. 1. Woodson said after the game that he'd consider lineup changes to get the Knicks going. The team has played with two point guards since losing All-Star center Tyson Chandler to a broken right fibula last Tuesday. "You got to keep pushing guys until you find the right combination that works. Our last three [home] outings have been awful the first half. Something that's very uncharacteristic of our team," Woodson said. "... That shouldn't be. You should feel good about playing at home in front of your fans. They pay their hard-earned money to see us play and we should give them something to play for, and we haven't done that." Players have said that everyone from Knicks owner and Madison Square Garden chairman James Dolan to the coaching staff is upset about New York's start. "This city and ... this organization, is not known for being patient," Anthony said. "But right now we have to figure it out. If patience is the way to go, then patient we have to be. There's no panic button being pushed right now. We have to figure it out." The Knicks held a closed-door meeting after last Tuesday's loss to Charlotte in which some questioned the team's effort.  On Sunday, New York gave San Antonio open looks from all over the floor, allowing the Spurs to shoot 54 percent from the field and 43 percent (12 for 28) from beyond the arc. Danny Green led the Spurs with 24 points. Green, Tony Parker and Kawhi Leonard combined to shoot 23 of 33 from the field. "It was embarrassing on our home court," Anthony said. "We didn't have it today. And they exploited that. They played harder, they played better and they won the game. "Whatever [is wrong], we have to figure it out quickly. I'm not worried about that. But we need to figure it out."