OAKLAND, Calif. -- David Lee will not travel with the Golden State Warriors when they play at Houston and Phoenix this weekend because of a left hamstring injury. The two-time All-Star power forward was scheduled to have an MRI on his hamstring late Thursday afternoon. The Warriors play at Houston on Saturday and at Phoenix on Sunday. Lee sat out the first three games of the season because of a strained hamstring. He scored six points in 7 minutes in the first half of Golden State's 121-104 win over the Clippers on Wednesday night before hurting his hamstring again. Warriors coach Steve Kerr said Lee will likely be sidelined beyond the weekend as the team takes a more cautious approach to his return this time. "I just feel bad for David because he's had a great preseason and he's worked so hard," Kerr said. "You saw the impact he made on the game immediately, and for this to happen, I feel bad for him. Hopefully we get him back soon and he'll be back in the mix and we'll go from there." Even without Lee, the Warriors are off to their best start in 20 years. The last time they began 4-0 was the 1994-95 season, when they won their first five games. Kerr, who took over for the fired Mark Jackson, also is the first coach in franchise history to start 4-0. He credited the team's improved depth for overcoming Lee's absence so far. Draymond Green will continue to start in Lee's place, and Kerr indicated after Wednesday night's game that Green could continue to start even when Lee is healthy. Green, who's in his third season, scored a career-high 24 points to go with eight rebounds and five assists against the Clippers and has rapidly improved each year. Marreese Speights and small forward Harrison Barnes could play additional time at power forward with the second unit, which also includes veterans Andre Iguodala, Shaun Livingston and Leandro Barbosa on the perimeter. "I think we have the deepest team in the NBA," Kerr said. "Our roster is remarkable. Not only the depth of talent, but the versatility of that talent."