In the first practice since Paul George broke his right leg during a scrimmage, Team USA suffered another injury scare Thursday. DeMarcus Cousins injured his right knee while going for a loose ball, but the Sacramento Kings star seemingly dodged a bullet, as an MRI revealed no structural damage. Team USA announced that Cousins is day to day. "USA Basketball National Team member DeMarcus Cousins suffered a knee-to-knee collision with a teammate during Thursday's USA practice in Chicago. According to USA Basketball team physician Dr. Lisa Callahan (Hospital for Special Surgery/New York Knicks), an MRI was done and revealed no structural damage. Cousins is listed as day to day," the team said in a statement. Cousins took to Twitter after the scare. Cousins got tangled with Anthony Davis when both big men hit the floor during a scrimmage toward the end of practice. He had to be helped off the court, and favored his right leg. Jerry Colangelo, director of Team USA, told reporters that the Kings big man will miss Saturday's exhibition game against Brazil.  Coach Mike Krzyzewski and the Team USA staff spoke with Cousins immediately after practice ended. He was sitting on a training table with an ice pack on his right knee. Cousins did not appear to be too concerned as he checked his cellphone. The team is practicing at Quest MultiSport Complex in Chicago. It has been a rough few weeks for Team USA. After losing George to an open tibia-fibula fracture, NBA MVP Kevin Durant of the Oklahoma City Thunder withdrew from consideration for the team, citing "physical and mental fatigue." George's injury and Durant's withdrawal followed previous withdrawals by All-Stars Kevin Love, Blake Griffin and LaMarcus Aldridge, and NBA Finals MVP Kawhi Leonard. Team USA is down to 15 finalists, with the final 12 scheduled to be selected before the Americans depart for the World Cup of Basketball in Spain in late August. The FIBA World Cup, featuring 24 national teams, is scheduled to be held Aug. 30-Sept. 14.