EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -- Brooklyn Nets point guard Deron Williams (ankle) will miss the team's next two games against Miami and Toronto, and is questionable for the contest against Atlanta in London on Jan. 16, according to coach Jason Kidd. Kidd added that Williams will be re-evaluated this weekend before a determination is made about if Williams will travel with the team to London. Williams has missed the last two games since spraining his left ankle, and his absence Friday against Miami and Saturday versus Toronto will mark the 14th and 15th games he misses. The 29-year-old has sprained his ankle three times this year, although it's unknown when he suffered his latest setback. The first sprain cost him two games, while the second one forced him out for nine. The point guard received a cortisone shot in both ankle joints and a platelet rich plasma (PRP) injection in the lateral ligaments of both of his ankles to relieve inflammation on Monday. Last season, Williams also received three sets of cortisone shots and a PRP injection in both ankles. It's been a rough season for Williams, who battled injury even before the season started when he sprained his right ankle and suffered a bone bruise during an offseason workout that sidelined him for nearly all of training camp and the preseason. With his problematic left ankle, Williams has played just 22 games in the second year of his five-year, $98 million contract he signed in 2012. Williams is averaging 13.6 points, 6.9 assists and 30.2 minutes per game, which are his fewest in each category since his rookie season in 2005-06. However, he is shooting a career-best 41.9 percent from deep. Williams did play well in his last two games as he scored a combined 50 points in wins over Cleveland and Oklahoma City, including a season-best 29 against the Thunder on Jan. 2. The Nets have gone 2-0 in Williams' absence and will try to make it 3-0 when they welcome the Heat on Friday. The Nets beat Miami 101-100 earlier this season in the teams' only matchup thus far. Alan Anderson has started in Williams' place, while Shaun Livingston handles point guard duties. "It's a team effort no matter who's in and who's out," Kidd said. "We win and lose as a team. The guys all want Deron back here soon. It's always the next guy up has to step up and we've been very lucky to have a deep team and guys are playing extremely hard." Shooting guard Joe Johnson said Williams' absence is notable. The Nets, winners of four straight, defeated Atlanta and Golden State without their point guard. "We've hit a rut with him not playing," Johnson. "The fact we had a couple good games, we're not going to get ahead of ourselves. We can't wait for him to get back. We definitely need him."