LAS VEGAS -- Chicago Bulls star Derrick Rose says there is no problem between himself and the organization after he acknowledged Thursday that there is lingering tension between some members of his inner circle and members of the team's front office. "It's funny just hearing so many stories about what's going on, and they're coming out kind of out of nowhere," Rose said in an interview with ESPN prior to Team USA's scrimmage on Friday night. "It's funny to hear about them, but it's nothing that's going on. Everybody that came here -- [Bulls general manager] Gar [Forman], [Bulls executive vice president John Paxson] -- came here to show love and for someone to just write something or throw something out there that's not true, it's kind of like, 'What are you doing?' It's kind of like hatin' because so much positive [stuff] is going on and you want to write the one article and just try to stir up something. It's something we don't need, but at the same time it's the past, it's behind us and I talked to Jerry [Reinsdorf, Bulls owner) already, so I'm not worried about it." Rose told the Chicago Sun-Times on Thursday that he knows there are some hard feelings on both sides after several events the past few seasons. "I know it's been there,'' Rose told the newspaper. "I heard there were some upset people. I'm happy I didn't personally see it. I don't want to see that. I kind of wonder where it was coming from because it seemed like whenever I was around, everything was all right. It bothered me because when I wasn't around, I would hear from certain people that everything wasn't all right.'' The tension Rose discussed has been widely speculated upon over the years, especially after the former MVP's recent injury woes. Paxson tried to allay those concerns during an appearance on ESPN 1000's "Waddle and Silvy Show" on Thursday. "I know I personally talk to Derrick," he said. "I don't talk to people in his so called 'camp.' I don't even know who that [is]." While there's no clear-cut start as to where the bad blood began, what exacerbated things between the organization and Rose's inner circle in recent weeks, sources told the Sun-Times, is the fact that the 25-year-old didn't take a more active approach in the free-agent recruiting process, especially with Carmelo Anthony. Rose acknowledged on Monday that he had spoken to Anthony, but there were many within the organization that wished he had done more. Reinsdorf refuted the Sun-Times report Thursday. "I am confounded by the irresponsible report in the Chicago Sun-Times suggesting there is anything approaching discord or confusion between the Bulls executive office, coaching staff, and Derrick Rose or any other Bulls player," he said in a statement. "To the contrary, I can remember no time when the organization has been any more focused, optimistic, and cohesive. I've got to assume suggestions otherwise are intended to undermine the goals and objectives, spirit, and reputation of the Chicago Bulls. "I am deeply disappointed that unnamed sources and totally inaccurate statements and assumptions can be used to foment nonexistent friction. The report is totally without basis or fact. It is pure malicious fiction."