DEERFIELD, Ill. -- Chicago Bulls guard Derrick Rose did not practice Thursday afternoon because of a right hamstring injury and is a game-time decision for Friday night's contest against the Toronto Raptors. It was the second straight day Rose did not practice after injuring the hamstring in the fourth quarter of Friday night's win over the Cleveland Cavaliers. Rose took some extra jump shots after practice and worked with the Bulls' director of sports performance, Jen Swanson, while doing exercises to loosen up his hamstring. The former league MVP is confident he will be able to play Friday despite the fact he did not practice. "There's a chance," he said. "Right now I'm feeling all right, just trying to rest, do a little treatment. But more than likely I'll be out there playing." Rose, who missed a game in the preseason because of knee soreness and has dealt with neck stiffness already this season, said he expected to have a few nagging injuries after missing a year and a half while recovering from knee surgery, but he says he is feeling much better in the last couple of days. "It's not a concern at all," Rose said. "I think everything I do or if I get hurt, it can be anything, it's going to be blown out of proportion. I'm doing fine and it shouldn't be anything to worry about." Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau did not sound as optimistic regarding Rose's chances to play against the Raptors. "We'll see," Thibodeau said. "It's day to day. He's a little bit better today. We'll see where he is [Friday]. He'll be a game-time decision." Thibodeau acknowledged that the Bulls are trying to be cautious with Rose considering all the rehab he has put in over the last year and a half. "You just want to make sure that he's completely healthy," Thibodeau said. "He's been off for 18 months. It's a long time to be off. There's going to be some bumps and bruises along the way, but just put everything you have into each and every day and just go from there." Rose remains confident that he will be able to help his teammates. "If I could go right now, if the game was today, I'd be playing," he said. "Like I said, I'm not worried about that. It's taking my time, not pushing myself, and like I said, not extending myself."