Chicago Bulls guard Derrick Rose plans to play for Team USA this summer as he recovers from a second knee surgery in as many years. "I'm looking forward to getting back on the court this summer and having the chance to represent our country," Rose said in a statement provided by Team USA. "It's an honor to play for Team USA and Coach K." Team USA on Thursday released a list of 28 players -- including Rose -- who will be in its program for the next three summers of competition. They will play in the World Cup of Basketball in Spain this summer. Rose, who won a gold medal with Team USA in the 2010 World Championship, tore the medial meniscus in his right knee on Nov. 22 and was ruled out by the Bulls for the remainder of the season after having surgery to repair the injury on Nov. 25. He has played in only 50 games during the past three seasons, which included missing the entire 2012-13 season following ACL surgery. Bulls coach and Team USA assistant Tom Thibodeau wants Rose to have the experience of playing with the world's best again. "I'm hopeful that he will participate and he'll be selected," Thibodeau said after the Bulls' win over the Cleveland Cavaliers on Wednesday night. "But a lot depends on where his health is. But I thought it was a great experience for him in the past. I know how much he enjoyed it. I know how USA Basketball feels about him. I think it's a great honor and a privilege, and hopefully it will work out." Krzyzewski said in October that he texts with Rose to keep track of how he's doing and was excited about the Chicago product being able to represent Team USA on the world stage. "There's a process that [USA Basketball chairman] Jerry Colangelo will orchestrate all that," Krzyzewski told ESPNChicago.com in October. "But it's not just 2016; we have to play in Spain next summer. It used to be the world championships and now it will be called the World Cup. And Derrick was our starting point guard when we won the world championships in Istanbul in 2010 and did a really good job. He was only 21 years old at that time and probably would have been on our Olympic team in London." Rose has been traveling with the Bulls over the past week and is slowly starting to do more work on the floor. "He's shooting now," Thibodeau said. "He's coming along fine. His spirit's strong. He had two workouts today, but he still has a long way to go. It's important for him to go step by step, be patient, and just regain his health."