SACRAMENTO, Calif. -- The Miami Heat dipped deep into their reserves on the second stop of a four-game trip, with Dwyane Wade, Ray Allen and Chris Andersen sitting out Friday night's game against the Sacramento Kings because of various injuries. Wade was given the night off amid the team's maintenance program to rest his knees as he continues to recover from an offseason shock-wave therapy procedure. Allen sat out the team's morning shootaround with a sore knee, and Andersen has a sore back. All three players participated in Wednesday's 101-95 victory to the Los Angeles Lakers. Andersen did not play the second half after experiencing stiffness in his upper back and neck midway through the game. Allen's knee soreness also stemmed from the Christmas Day game. Roger Mason Jr. was inserted into the starting lineup at shooting guard to replace Wade. "We met about it and decided that it was best for the three of them to continue to get rest," coach Erik Spoelstra said shortly before Friday's game. "We feel fortunate for the depth we have. We feel like that is one of the biggest strengths of our team." Wade's absence, however, is viewed more as a precaution as the Heat try to limit his availability when there are games on consecutive nights. He is expected to be available when Miami visits the Portland Trail Blazers on Saturday in the second game of the back-to-back set. Spoelstra wasn't sure whether Allen or Andersen would be able to play in Portland. Spoelstra also said Greg Oden's rehabilitation from various knee injuries is progressing, but the center will not be in the active lineup in Miami's lone visit to Portland. The Blazers made Oden the No. 1 pick of the 2007 draft -- one slot ahead of Kevin Durant, who was taken by Oklahoma City. Friday marked the eighth game Wade has missed this season, but he is making significant progress in the team's rest-and-recovery program. In his past five games, Wade is averaging 25.5 points and shooting 61.1 percent from the field. The Heat are 4-3 without Wade this season.