Who is Elfrid Payton and why did Bill Simmons pick Payton in the preseason as rookie of the year? Payton is the Orlando Magic point guard, and he is currently sixth in the NBA in assists. But before the season Payton was merely a late lottery pick in a stacked 2014 NBA draft, far behind Andrew Wiggins, Jabari Parker, Joel Embiid, Dante Exum, Marcus Smart, Julius Randle and even Magic teammate Aaron Gordon in notoriety. Payton was not the first point guard selected in the draft; he came from a school almost no one had heard of (Louisiana-Lafayette) and was believed by many to be a reach at the 10th pick because of his weakness as a shooter. But indeed Payton is a sleeper for rookie of the year. Payton lacks the typical résumé of NBA stardom. He stayed in college for three years, played against low-level competition, never shot the ball well (only 27 percent from 3-point territory) and turned the ball over a ton. These are not usually seen as the building blocks for success at the next level. A closer examination of his three college seasons, though, reveals a different story and demonstrates that Payton has a good chance to become one of the NBA's top point guards. Mining data on college players to find the best predictors of NBA success is an ongoing exercise. There is no certainty about the process, but some elements of a player's college performance have been shown to increase the odds that he will find NBA success. For point guards, some of those areas are rebounding, assists and general improvement. Elfrid Payton checks all of those boxes in ways that make him comparable to Rajon Rondo of the Celtics. Payton and Rondo share more than a birthday -- they also were very similar college players. Both rebounded very well for point guards, had high assist rates and didn't shoot well. But Rondo's poor shooting in college has not prevented success in the NBA, and like Rondo, Payton has the ability to contribute in multiple ways while he improves his shooting ability. Payton grew significantly as a player throughout his three seasons in college. His stats (measured per 40 minutes of play) improved in assists, rebounds, scoring and free throw attempts (and in fouls and turnovers). His effective field goal percentage moved from 45 percent his freshman year to 52 percent his junior year. That kind of consistent, high-level improvement (for college players with more than just one year in school) has generally correlated well with continued improvement and success in the NBA. So how does he make the leap from unknown to rookie of the year? First, he will get the minutes. By waiving Jameer Nelson after the draft, the Magic opened the door for Payton, who is starting and playing about 29 minutes per game. And with Orlando more likely to compete for lottery odds than a playoff spot, Payton should get plenty of run all season. His shooting is as bad as advertised so far, at 34.1 percent on field goals, but Payton has started very quickly anyway -- he's averaging seven assists and almost five rebounds. Overall, through five games, Payton is averaging about 10 points, nine assists, six rebounds and two steals per 36 minutes, numbers which closely resembles those from Rondo's first season, when he was also 20 years old. The last player to reach those thresholds in his rookie season was Jason Kidd, the co-rookie of the year in 1994-95. So who is Elfrid Payton? He is a young, dynamic point guard to watch as the rookie of the year race heats up.