Please keep in mind you are responsible for the content you post on ESPN.com. Content that includes profanity, personal attacks or antisocial behavior (such as "spamming" or "trolling"), or is otherwise inappropriate will be removed. Users who violate our Terms of Use may be banned. Some sections of ESPN.com utilize Facebook's commenting system (those sections are clearly identified as such). Below are some Frequently Asked Questions regarding Facebook Comments: • Is a Facebook account required in order to comment on ESPN.com? You must have a Facebook account to add a comment on certain sections of ESPN.com. You can easily create an account here. Note that some public computers or workplaces may restrict access to Facebook, which in turn would limit your ability to post a comment from that location. • Can I report an abusive comment? Certainly. We strive for a civil discussion, and users can flag any comment that is offensive by clicking on the "X" in the upper right corner of each post. This allows you to either 'Report an Abuse' or 'Mark as Spam', prompting Facebook moderators to review the message and determine whether or not it meets standards. The comment will be removed from your view. Facebook tracks abuse reports and automatically bans users who are consistently abusive. • Will my Facebook friends also see my comments? By default, any comment you post on ESPN.com via Facebook also will appear on your Facebook account (e.g., timeline, news feed) as a public comment (meaning your Facebook friends and other Facebook users will be able to see it). If you prefer that a given message not appear on your Facebook account, simply uncheck the 'Post to Facebook' box adjacent to each comment module before posting your comment. That option is not available when replying to another user's comment (if you reply to another user's comment, your reply will appear on that user's Facebook account, whether or not he/she is your friend on Facebook). • How much can other ESPN commenters see from my Facebook profile? People will see personal information you have made public on Facebook (e.g., school, work, current city, date of birth). You can adjust certain personal information revealed with your comment by using the standard Facebook privacy settings, located here. On Facebook, you can access your Privacy settings and adjust all categories to your level of comfort, although you will not be able to prevent your Facebook name and profile photo from appearing with your comment. • Can I delete my comment after it's posted? Yes, hover over the comment and click the 'pencil', then click 'delete', then click 'confirm'. More details here: https://www.facebook.com/help/105443102880679/ Note: Deleting a comment on ESPN.com will remove it from both ESPN.com and Facebook. To remove it from Facebook only (and leave it publicly visible on ESPN.com), delete the comment on Facebook. You may choose 'hide from timeline' on Facebook to prevent other Facebook users from seeing your comment on Facebook. • Can I edit a comment? Not at this time. However, you can delete and repost. • What if my question wasn't answered here? You may email ESPN customer service or call 888-549-3776 (ESPN) from 8 a.m. to 1 a.m. ET daily or, if you are having problems with your Facebook account, visit the Facebook Help page.