UNCASVILLE, Conn. -- Carmelo Anthony seemed a bit incredulous. It was, after all, an exhibition game. But that didn't stop Evan Turner from hounding Anthony and barking at him on the court and on the bench. Now here the two were shoving each other a bit after a whistle. Anthony shot Turner a glance as if to say, "C'mon, man, it's the preseason!" The Boston Celtics were wrapping up a stretch of four games in six nights on Saturday by playing the second night of a back-to-back against the New York Knicks. The game required a two-hour, traffic-deterred bus ride from Waltham, Massachusetts to Mohegan Sun, where most of the Celtics involved probably would have rather spent a couple of hours wandering the gaming floor than the parquet floor in front of a crowd that would flee before the final horn sounded to do just that. Turner, sporting a pair of reading glasses, walked through the locker room an hour before tip-off, fresh from his latest film session as he tries to get himself up to speed with the team's playbook and principles. The Celtics have asked Turner to learn three positions, including a point guard spot he hasn't played since college because of the need for a ball-handler while Rajon Rondo recovers from hand surgery. For Turner, that represents an opportunity -- and an opportunity is what he needs. Still only 25, Turner is essentially a reclamation project, a player who can't be referenced without noting his draft status -- second overall in 2010, if you haven't heard -- and who was jettisoned by the Philadelphia 76ers last season and failed to impact the Indiana Pacers' playoff run. Not many teams called this offseason and Turner patiently waited for Boston's roster to unclog before signing a modest two-year, $6.7 million deal with hopes of restoring his value on a team trying to reestablish itself. Now every second matters to Turner, regardless of whether it's practice reps, film sessions or preseason game action. And that's why he was out there on Saturday harassing Anthony. Turner never has been regarded as a particularly inspired defender, but he's been challenged to become one with the Celtics. And one night after chasing Toronto's DeMar DeRozan, Turner gamely checked Anthony -- maybe a little too intensely for what New York's star player expected out of a breezy exhibition. "Evan is a prideful guy," Celtics coach Brad Stevens said. "When you're a former national player of the year, who is a guy that wasn't all that heavily sought after coming out of high school, he's got a little chip on his shoulder. "We talked about one of the things we are excited about the addition of Evan for us is that he's got even more hunger added to his norm, just because of the way last year ended for him. And I think he's looking at it as a fresh start and a start that he can take advantage of. He's certainly done that. I very much trust him in the game right now." Stevens has offered subtle hints that Turner might be playing his way into the conversation for a starting role. With Rondo sidelined, there's a need for an additional ball-handler and Turner has contributed in multiple areas when he's been on the floor. Where can the Celtics play him? Well, that's a bit more difficult. Rookie Marcus Smart has displayed NBA-ready defense that could give Stevens the confidence to pair him with Avery Bradley in the team's backcourt until Rondo returns. Jeff Green, the incumbent at small forward, has missed the first four games of the exhibition season with a calf strain and might have to reassert himself a bit when he returns to ensure he holds that spot. Stevens hasn't been bashful in suggesting that all starting and rotation jobs are available to those willing to earn them. One thing is clear: Turner is going to get minutes, one way or another. He may be Boston's best player at getting to the rim and can create for others in the process. Turner struggles to finish at the basket, but he's one of the few Celtics who can get there off the dribble. And he's been excellent in transition, which plays into Stevens' desire to be more of an up-tempo offense. Through four games, Turner also has been a surprisingly competitive defender. Synergy Sports defensive data says he's allowing 0.743 points per play, which is a very good number for the talent he opposed at his position and is below the team average of 0.868 points per play, which ranked Boston in the middle of the NBA pack through Saturday's action. Saturday's game was a chance to show he could handle an elite player such as Anthony, one night after matching up with DeRozan. Turner wasn't perfect, and Anthony made a few baskets against him in the third quarter, but Turner did his best to stick with him and contest shots. "I just wanted to make sure this year I come in with a defensive mindset," Turner said. "It's tough to play both sides of the ball. The biggest thing for me is making sure I get my body conditioned for it. But [Anthony is] a tough scorer, of course. I personally, for the longest time, thought he was the best scorer in the league. Even [Friday] night, DeMar Derozan's a tough guard too. I'm glad to at least try to make it uncomfortable for him a little bit." And sometimes making opponents uncomfortable requires getting under their skin or in their jersey, which might explain the jousting with Anthony. When that bumping was referenced, Turner added, "I think he thought I tried to push him. I don't really remember what happened. I just remember he pushed me, I pushed him. But it wasn't anything to go crazy over. I just think it's a misunderstanding. It's whatever. Whatever happens happens. You just leave it at that." Turner is a talker, on the court and off, as his teammates quickly confirm. Bradley raved about the advice Turner dispenses on the bench, while fellow Ohio State product Jared Sullinger gushes about how Turner has taken him under his wing since joining the Celtics. "I've usually kind of been a talkative guy," Turner said. "I don't know what occurs after I leave. Hopefully, [the younger players] don't roll their eyes after I leave. But once again, I just say what I think or say how I feel. Sometimes that gets people on my side, sometimes it gets me in trouble." His talkative nature got him in trouble on Saturday with Anthony, but those in green enjoyed every second of it. Turner has spoken glowingly about his early days in Boston. The preseason is typically a honeymoon period for all newcomers. But Turner seems genuinely happy with the Celtics and knows there's an opportunity to reestablish himself without a real spotlight glaring on him. If he plays well enough, it seems fair to wonder if playoff contenders might be intrigued again at the trade deadline. Or maybe the Celtics will want to ride out two reasonably priced seasons with Turner and see how he fits in their long-term future. Some Boston fans groaned when Turner was brought in this offseason, but he's going to win them over quickly. Like Kris Humphries last season, Turner can sway those leery with his work ethic, easy-going personality and a desire to simply help the team improve. And being an antagonizer to opponents such as Anthony will help that cause too.