For better or for worse, the NBA universe will be focused on the Cleveland Cavaliers all season, if not for the next several seasons. The current vibe is chaos and confusion, as opposed to chemistry and contention. I discussed LeBron James' early statistical struggles on our fantasy hoops blog, and I remain confident that bigger and better box scores are on the way for his investors. But as the crack team from ESPN Stats & Info informs us, the lack of cohesion on the team is nearing historic levels; the Cavs assisted on only six of their 30 made field goals in their dramatic loss to Utah, the lowest assist percentage (20%) on a James team in his career. ESPN Stats & Info notes it was also the third-lowest assist percentage by any team since he came into the league and the lowest in a game since 2010. We're now learning that the fears of Cleveland's potentially porous defense are proving accurate early on, as the Cavs are allowing 109.7 points per 100 possessions, the fourth-worst mark in the league, again according to ESPN Stats & Info. Facing the Miami Heat over the past few seasons was often a tough task for opposing offenses, as the Heat ranked sixth in defensive efficiency last season and second overall in 2012-13. Investors in the Cavs' trio of stars must remain patient and at least allow some time for stock to stabilize, but it's becoming increasingly clear that sending out your fantasy weapons to face this soft defensive team is a wise move. Pivoting over to a surprisingly positive early trend, the Philadelphia 76ers' Tony Wroten is ranked 13th on our Player Rater. In our first edition of the Forecaster this season, we pushed the Washington product as an intriguing add, as he was owned in fewer than 11 percent of ESPN leagues at the time. Now universally owned and enjoying an elite usage rate that has him tied with Stephen Curry for seventh in the league, even a dip in production when Michael Carter-Williams returns (who began practicing this week) could be offset by news that Wroten could shift over to shooting guard. And since 1985, only Allen Iverson has matched Wroten's 104 points and 17 steals through five games. "Selling high" is a nice concept, but I imagine it would be difficult to net a significant asset in return for Wroten given the lack of pedigree and reputation. Most markets will just assume it's a temporary trend with Wroten, but minutes, shots and possessions will continue to be plentiful. As will a massive clip of turnovers, as Grantland's Zach Lowe humorously points out below. Wroten is certainly not a top-15 fantasy asset over a full season, but top 50 seems realistic given the team's consistently high pace and Wroten's relative green light. In looking at the week to come, 10 teams play four games this week, 16 play three and four play just two games this week. The Clippers -- likely the deepest fantasy-relevant roster in the league -- are part of the two-game club, limiting the fun for investors in weekly formats. Team trends: Notes and news from around the league Golden pace: Pace is an advanced stat by nature, but really it's just telling us the number of possessions a team averages per 48 minutes. This data goes all the way back to the 1973-74 season at Basketball Reference, where they detail the formula. While pace isn't always an indicator of a deep, fantasy-relevant roster -- as the 76ers led in the statistic last season -- it's often a helpful tool for finding teams that produce higher-volume offensive output, or in Philadelphia's case, a team you want your fantasy players to face. Below you'll see the current leaders in pace, topped by the Golden State Warriors, a team enjoying a stellar start. New coach Steve Kerr clearly has an agenda on pushing the ball, allowing his prodigious shooting weapons greater volume. Even Draymond Green is getting in on the action, enjoying career highs in minutes and scoring efficiency across the board. The Warriors join the Houston Rockets' white-hot duo of James Harden and Trevor Ariza as the only other set of teammates in the top 15 on the Player Rater. Friendly foes: To help explain the other columns below; the "eFG%" column stands for effective field goal percentage, a metric that weights 3-pointers as 1.5 times more valuable than standard field goal attempts. Offensive rating (OffRtg) is the number of points scored per 100 possessions for a team. You can guess the next column is defensive rating, the number of points a team allows per 100 possessions. The Warriors, impressively, rank seventh in offensive rating and first in defensive rating. You'll notice the Los Angeles Lakers are allowing an amazingly generous 117.4 points per 100 possessions to opponents, 5.7 percent more than the next closest team. Lesson: start your engines versus the Lakers. Triangle troubles? As ESPN Insider Joe Kaiser discussed in The Crossover, Carmelo Anthony "has taken 2.4 fewer 3-point attempts per game than he did last season, when he launched 5.4 treys per game. His scoring (27.4 to 21.3 PPG) and rebounding (8.1 to 3.5 RPG) numbers are both considerably lower, as well." You'll find the New York Knicks last in pace, at 89.73 possessions per 48 minutes. The Knicks were second-to-last in 2013-14 with 92.59 possessions per 48 minutes, a season in which Anthony finished sixth on our Player Rater, so tying this pace element alone to his success would be obtuse. But as John Cregan noted on our fantasy hoops blog, the former Syracuse star's deflated minutes and diminishing shooting duties are likely a cause for some concern in regards to his fantasy impact. Player pickups: Identifying players available in at least half of ESPN leagues Shawne Williams (2.6 percent owned), Miami Heat: Josh McRoberts has played just 33 minutes so far this season, while Williams is averaging 29.6 minutes per night. Lofting 5.2 3-pointers per night and connecting on them at an unsustainable, yet impressive, .462 clip, Williams isn't showing signs of ceding many minutes back McRoberts' way in the near future. Courtney Lee (14.2), Memphis Grizzlies: As any fantasy hoops head will tell you, minutes remain one of the most influential statistics we covet. Lee is averaging 30.3 minutes per night so far for the Grizzlies and is putting up healthy numbers across the board with 16.0 points per night and an incredible (and again unsustainable) 70 percent conversion rate from beyond the arc. You'll also find a healthy batch of steals to go along with the hot hand of late. Even if regression is on the way, this week might not deliver it, as the aforementioned Lakers (27th in defensive efficiency versus shooting guards), Sacramento Kings (22nd) and Detroit Pistons (29th) all struggle in stopping opposing 2s. Evan Fournier (15.9), Orlando Magic: This French import is playing 31.5 minutes per game with a somewhat respectable usage rate of 18.1 (usage percentage is an estimate of the percentage of team plays used by a player while he was on the floor). Fournier's usage rate for Denver last season was 18.7, but with just 19.8 minutes per night, the counting stats we covet simply couldn't blossom. Fournier produces a fairly hollow line past the deep ball, but as a career .385 shooter from beyond the arc currently averaging 4.2 3-point attempts per game, there is some real value developing as a deep-ball specialist for owners seeking a boost in the category. Down the road: Garrett Temple (39) of the Washington Wizards might not be an ideal asset for the coming week, as the "Wiz" only play two games. Going forward, however, Temple remains interesting if afforded such a heavy workload (only six shooting guards are averaging more minutes per game than Temple's 35). As long as Bradley Beal continues to mend, Temple is a profitable addition to fantasy portfolios. 