Los Angeles Dodgers against the St. Louis Cardinals, arguably the two greatest franchises in the history of the National League, teams that have been playing since 1884 and 1882, respectively. This will mark the fourth time in the past 10 years they have met in the postseason, including last year. It's Dodger Blue against Cardinal Red. There is a lot of color in this one. Here are five questions. What can we expect from Clayton Kershaw? He just finished a historic season, one so spectacular there are too many numbers to illustrate his greatness. But these numbers sum it up: He is the first pitcher since 1880 to win 21 of 27 starts, and he allowed three or fewer runs in 26 of 27, the highest percentage of starts allowing three or fewer runs in any season by any pitcher. In 14 innings against the Cardinals this season, he allowed three runs, walked four and struck out 21. And in two career LDS starts, Kershaw is 1-0 with a 1.37 ERA. But, as there always is in baseball, there is another side to the story: Kershaw is 1-3 with a 4.23 ERA in the postseason. The last time he pitched in the playoffs, he lasted four innings, allowed 10 hits and seven runs in Game 6 of the NL Championship Series against the Cardinals last season. Kershaw is a wildly competitive guy, and you know he remembers that start as he heads to the mound in Game 1. He will be charged up, especially given that the last time he pitched was Sept. 24. Where's the Cardinals' offense? It simply is not the same group from 2013. That team led the NL in scoring; this team scored 164 fewer runs and finished 10th in runs scored. The Cardinals were last in the NL with 105 homers. Matt Holliday is the only Cardinal who finished with more than 75 RBIs. And they'll be left-handed heavy -- Matt Carpenter, Matt Adams, Jon Jay, Kolten Wong -- going against Kershaw and Hyun-Jin Ryu. In seven games against the Dodgers this season, the Cardinals scored 14 runs. "I don't know if they can score enough to beat the Dodgers," one scout said. "But I've doubted the Cardinals before. They usually find a way." Where's the Dodgers' offense? It finished second in the National League (to Colorado) in runs scored, and it scored the most runs in the league in the second half. Adrian Gonzalez led the NL in RBIs. Matt Kemp hit .309 and slugged .606 in the second half of the season; in September, he batted .322 with nine home runs. Carl Crawford hit .333 in the second half, .448 in September. If Yasiel Puig gets it going, and shortstop Hanley Ramirez stays healthy, this is a dynamic offensive team. "Kemp is a different player now," one scout said. "He is healthy. And he is really good." What's the health status of the rotations? Ryu had arm issues in September -- he pitched only twice, the last time being a one-inning start (four runs) on Sept. 12. He is expected to be healthy for this series, but it could be hard for him to regain his sharpness after that much time off. Zack Greinke has had mild problems with his shoulder, but he was able to make five starts (his team won them all; he won four of them) in September. But, he went more than six innings in only one of the starts. For the Cardinals, ace Adam Wainwright (2.38 ERA in 32 starts) is obviously good enough to beat anyone (including Kershaw) at any time on any mound in any situation. Lance Lynn (2.74 ERA in 33 starts) is a solid No. 2 starter. The key will be John Lackey, who was acquired from Boston to pitch big games down the stretch. He hasn't been very good with St. Louis and had a dead-arm period late in the season. And don't look for Michael Wacha to emerge as a big-time starter, at least not in the NLDS. He was so instrumental in pitching the Cardinals into the World Series last year, but shoulder issues have prevented him from being that guy this season. How good is the Cardinals' bullpen? Good, but not the same as it was last season. That pen was unhittable most of the 2013 postseason, led by closer Trevor Rosenthal. But he has had control issues this season: forty-two walks in 70 1/3 innings. Carlos Martinez (4.03 ERA in 57 appearances), who has shuffled between the rotation and the bullpen, hasn't been quite the same lockdown guy in the eighth inning as he was down the stretch last season. And lefty Kevin Siegrist has seen his ERA go from 0.45 last year to 6.82 this season. The pick: Dodgers in five