OAKLAND, Calif. -- Before signing center Andrew Bogut to a contract extension Friday, the Golden State Warriors waived three training camp invitees and extended the contracts of three regulars. The Warriors waived guard Seth Curry, center Dewayne Dedmon and forward Joe Alexander. They also exercised the fourth-year contract option on shooting guard Klay Thompson and the third-year contract options on forward Harrison Barnes and center Festus Ezeli for the 2014-15 season, as expected. "If you quote the quote The Godfather, `We were settling all our family business," Warriors general manager Bob Myers said at the news conference announcing Bogut's contract extension. A person with knowledge of Bogut's deal told The Associated Press it was for three years and $36 million and could be worth up to about $42 million with incentives. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because the terms had not been publicly disclosed. Bogut's contract was set to expire after this season. The roster is at 14 players, one fewer than the maximum allowed. The Warriors could still sign another player before Wednesday night's regular-season opener against the Los Angeles Lakers. Curry, Dedmon and Alexander were long shots to make the final roster. All three are expected to land on the team's NBA Development League affiliate, the Santa Cruz Warriors, if they aren't picked up by another NBA team. The 23-year-old Curry, the younger brother of Warriors guard Stephen Curry, signed as an undrafted free agent out of Duke on Aug. 22. He missed most of the summer recovering from surgery on his right knee and shin. Seth Curry appeared in six preseason games and averaged 2.2 points and one assist in 7.2 minutes. Dedmon played in five games, averaging 3.4 points and four rebounds in 10.3 minutes. Alexander did not appear in the preseason because of a stress reaction in his left leg. Thompson has played in 148 games -- starting 111 -- the past two seasons. He is averaging 14.8 points, 3.2 rebounds and 2.1 assists per game. Barnes started 81 games as a rookie last season. He averaged 9.2 points, 4.1 rebounds and 1.2 assists while earning firsrt-team All-Rookie honors. Ezeli appeared in 78 games -- with 41 starts -- as a rookie last season, averaging 2.4 points and four rebounds. He is expected to be out until at least January recovering from offseason surgery on his right knee.