After another week filled with injuries that will undoubtedly alter the fantasy landscape, let's take at the injury fallout  and other notable storylines over the past week: Al Horford's pectoral injury is a major blow to both the Atlanta Hawks and his fantasy owners. With averages of 18.6 points and 8.4 rebounds per game on the year, there's a lot of production to replace with Horford out of the lineup for the rest of the season. Expect Jeff Teague and Paul Millsap to do the heavy lifting on the offensive end, and don't be surprised if the Hawks run with a small lineup, giving Louis Williams, DeMarre Carroll and Kyle Korver more minutes to compensate for their lack of depth in the frontcourt. If you're looking for pickup candidates, I like Williams, Carroll and Korver much more than the Hawks' frontcourt options of Elton Brand, Mike Scott and Pero Antic. Williams, by the way, is averaging a cool 17.4 points, 1.4 steals and 3.0 3-pointers over his past five games and is looking like a must-add with Horford out indefinitely. Russell Westbrook was averaging 21.4 points, 6.9 rebounds, 8.1 assists, 1.6 steals and 1.4 3-pointers in 14 games this month prior to undergoing surgery to reduce swelling in his right knee on Friday. Westbrook is expected to return after the All-Star break, and his owners will have to make a difficult roster decision given how well he was producing. Reggie Jackson was already a quality pickup candidate before the injury but becomes a must-add with Westbrook shelved. Jeremy Lamb, who is averaging 9.9 points and 1.3 3-pointers in just 21.7 minutes per game this month, makes for a quality speculative add in deeper fantasy formats as well. What can we expect from Larry Sanders now that he's returned from a thumb injury that forced him to miss 25 games? Sanders figured to be a top-40 player after averaging 12.0 points, 11.1 rebounds and 2.3 blocks after the All-Star break last year, but he started slow before succumbing to the aforementioned thumb injury earlier this season. He is talented enough to put his early woes behind him, and he has the potential to be a double-double threat with two-plus blocks if he can earn consistent minutes in Larry Drew's rotation. Given the way Ersan Ilyasova has played this year, it would not be surprising at all to see the Milwaukee Bucks rolling with Sanders and John Henson as their starters in the frontcourt going forward. After a disastrous start to the season, Tyreke Evans has slowly but surely found his way in New Orleans, with 15.3 points, 5.0 rebounds, 5.9 assists and 1.5 steals in 11 games this month. He hasn't been terribly efficient from the floor (40.5 percent shooting) but is connecting on 89.4 percent of his free throws, with 6.0 attempts per game. Evans is putting up big numbers in just 26.6 minutes per game this month, and his value could skyrocket if Eric Gordon's hip injury should linger. With the dust now settled on the Rudy Gay-to-Sacramento trade, Isaiah Thomas and Kyle Lowry have emerged as upper-tier fantasy point guards. Lowry is averaging 18.7 points, 4.5 rebounds, 8.2 assists, 1.6 steals and 2.3 3-pointers in 13 games this month, while Thomas has exploded for 20.9 points, 3.1 rebounds, 7.4 assists, 2.1 steals and 2.2 3-pointers in 14 games this month. Thomas moves up to 19th overall in my Top 130 rankings and Lowry moves to 33rd, as both have returned top-10 value over the past 30 days, according to our Player Rater. With so many dominant and well-rounded fantasy point guards out there, it's hard to continue to rank Ricky Rubio and Mike Conley ahead of players like Monta Ellis, Michael Carter-Williams, Deron Williams and Brandon Jennings. And if they don't pick things up soon, they'll be in danger of slipping below the next wave of points, such as Kemba Walker, Jrue Holiday, Kyle Lowry and Goran Dragic. The difference between these players is extremely small, and the number of point guard-eligible players in my top 50 (20) is simply staggering. Blake Griffin is in the midst of an absolutely brilliant stretch, with 30.2 points, 12.2 rebounds and 1.4 steals per game over his past five contests, but even more impressive has been his improved free throw shooting (77.0 percent over his past 15 games). It's an extremely small sample size, but Griffin has steadily improved his free throw shooting over the past few years, and he'd be a top-20 player if he could keep up the good work from the line. Somehow, Avery Bradley is owned in just 50.7 percent of ESPN.com leagues despite averaging 16.3 points, 5.4 rebounds, 0.9 steals and 1.9 3-pointers in 11 games this month. Bradley has been playing at an extremely high level since late November and should be owned in all fantasy leagues, particularly given the news that Rajon Rondo might not return until February. J.R. Smith is finally starting to find his touch with Carmelo Anthony sidelined, putting up 16.8 points, 6.8 rebounds, 5.2 assists, 1.6 steals and 2.8 3-pointers over his past five games. Smith is an ultra streaky player, and he won't be nearly this productive when Melo returns, but it's good to see him starting to put up some numbers after a disastrous start to the season. Those in deeper leagues may also want to take a look at rookie Tim Hardaway Jr. while Anthony heals. Hardaway Jr. has knocked down eight 3-pointers in three games without Melo and has some sleeper potential as a 3-point specialist later in the season.