Franchise narratives across the league shift in one night, like when Allen Iverson went to Philly, or now with Andrew Wiggins in Minnesota and Jabari Parker in Milwaukee. Each draft class significantly augments the fantasy basketball marketplace, as well. Once free agency settles and LeBron James orchestrates a league-shifting trade or two, the fantasy focus then becomes pricing and projecting this infusion of talent for fantasy purposes. In this rookie roundup, we discuss and rank the key commodities in this 2014 class with our specific statistical interests in mind. Jabari Parker (57 in current ESPN Top 200), SF/PF, Milwaukee Bucks: Using a similarity score system that accounts for a player's physical measurables as well statistical data from his NCAA career, Hickory High produces player comparisons for draft prospects by finding the closest matches within the given criteria. Parker's comps from this project are somewhat favorable, with Carmelo Anthony ranking as the second-closest comparison across the data for Parker. Whether Parker can become the next Melo or even the next Glenn "Big Dog" Robinson for the Bucks remains unanswerable for now, but as John Cregan noted in his rookie piece from this summer, Anthony's rookie stats line of 21 points, 6.1 boards, 1.2 steals and 0.8 3s is an ideal goal for Parker and his fantasy investors. Refined offensive skills, an abundance of minutes and shots with heavy duties on both sides of court; you name it and Parker delivers. This is the rare rookie asset you can feel good about "reaching for" in middle rounds. Andrew Wiggins (64), SG/SF, Minnesota Timberwolves: Cregan again makes a salient comparison, this time for Wiggins, as Paul George's rookie campaign of 13.5 points, 6.4 boards and 1.8 steals feels appropriate for this season's top draft pick in his debut campaign. Learning under LeBron James in Cleveland could have been special for Wiggins' career trajectory in the long term, but in the short term, the move to Minnesota offers the former Jayhawk a much larger immediate role with greater responsibilities to deliver on his draft price. While he doesn't project so favorably in Kevin Pelton's WARP model (projecting the wins above replacement player that the player will average over his first five seasons in the NBA), Wiggins' defensive skill set should deliver right away in the fantasy sense (1.2 steals and one block per game last season). Many have said that Wiggins' game would translate better to the pros than the college court, and it likely will cost you only a sixth- or seventh-round pick to find out. Nerlens Noel (77), PF/C, Philadelphia 76ers: Even as it's getting colder, a block party is coming to Philadelphia. Noel averaged a robust 4.4 swats a game at Kentucky while averaging 2.2 steals. The past season wasn't just spent on recovering from an ACL injury suffered late in his freshman year of college, but also on shot reconstruction and developing knowledge of an NBA offense with an agenda of developing a pick-and-roll partner for reigning rookie of the year Michael Carter-Williams (Noel's AAU teammate). On an offense that led the NBA in possessions per game last season, it's not crazy to expect some high-percentage fun on the fast break for MCW and Noel, a big man adept at running the floor. Like most things Sixers, Noel is quite raw and will take time to meet his potential -- particularly offensively and from the stripe -- but there's an undeniably safe floor for blocks, steals and field goal percentage from the opening tip. Elfrid Payton (87), PG, Orlando Magic: If this rookie class seems rich in defensive statistics and light on offensive polish, that's likely an accurate appraisal. A fitting last name for one of the better defensive prospects at the position in some time, Payton's natural comparison for a rookie campaign is Rajon Rondo (9.9 points, 5.8 assists, 2.5 steals in 2006-7). Payton averaged 2.4 steals per game over his past two college campaigns. At a supremely deep point guard position, it's difficult to endorse Payton as a starting fantasy asset right away, but the potential is present for him to become a unique stat-stuffer in scarcer stats like Rondo. K.J. McDaniels (130), SG, Philadelphia 76ers: Who says the Sixers didn't net an elite talent capable of starting right away? Everyone, probably -- and that's likely correct -- but that doesn't mean McDaniels can't immediately offer fantasy investors meaningful production. The Clemson product averaged over a steal (1.1) and blocked 100 shots in 36 games last season. Over the course of his college career, McDaniels blocked one shot for every 12.8 minutes on the court. Some real signs of shooting improvement developed at Clemson, as well, as McDaniels shot just 57.9 percent from the charity stripe as a freshman but 84.2 percent as a junior last season while ranking fifth in the ACC in free throw attempts. Similarity scores find Josh Howard, Alec Burks, Josh Childress and Gordon Hayward all as reasonable and favorable comps for McDaniels. Even if his raw offensive game doesn't immediately help in the box score sense, few guards offer this sort of Wade-ian block upside. Dante Exum (139), SG, Utah Jazz: Almost all draft prospects have a good deal of variance in their projections across different models, but the sheer lack of statistical foundation from Exum's amateur and professional days in Australia has led to somewhat of a guessing game for what to expect from this draft's mystery man. Continuing on the small and questionable sample size angle, Exum's game appeared a bit raw in the Las Vegas summer league, for whatever that is worth. There is upside here for both the Jazz and fantasy investors, but it might be a while off. Doug McDermott (168), SF, Chicago Bulls: Pelton's WARP projections rank McDermott favorably for this upcoming season (sixth in the class projected win percentage), but we should only be chasing shooting numbers from the Creighton product for his freshman NBA campaign. "While McDermott is likely to be a good scorer right away," Pelton wrote, "his defensive statistics are appalling. In four years, he totaled 34 steals and 14 blocks; 152 NCAA players had that many last season alone." If the rest of this fantasy class so far, outside of Parker and Randle, is valued for its defensive contributions, we'll be chasing healthy shooting percentages and a volume of 3-pointers from the new Bull. Marcus Smart (179), PG/SG, Boston Celtics: If Wiggins doesn't vet out well in Pelton's WARP, the system certainly loves Smart, ranking him tops among the entire draft class. Even if minutes and usage are tough to come by in Boston behind two established veteran guards, some nice defensive metrics could buoy Smart's stock as a fantasy commodity. As Pelton explained, "Smart's projected steal rate is tops for any projected first-round pick, which is important because steal rate has been a strong indicator of NBA success. He is also an excellent rebounder and has been surprisingly good playing against star point guards." More of a stash-for-now as a third guard in Boston, this gritty young guard could see major minutes and value come his way with a Rondo trade. Julius Randle (131), PF, Los Angeles Lakers: Our projections have Randle producing 10.5 points and nearly seven boards a night, while afforded about 28 minutes per game. Carlos Boozer and some shot-happy veterans on the perimeter could suffocate the numbers a bit in Year 1. Even if Randle hits our respectable projected numbers, lowly rates in steals, assists and blocks temper the sleeper interest a bit. Deeper Sleepers: Rodney Hood (156) could earn meaningful minutes right away with Richard Jefferson and Marvin Williams gone from Utah's rotation (taking with them over 52 minutes per game combined). Similarly to "McBuckets," Hood could produce a fairly hollow stat line buoyed largely by the deep ball. ... The Sacramento Kings' Nik Stauskas (162) favorably compares to the Denver Nuggets' Arron Afflalo using a similarity score system. Pelton projects a quality shooter, "only McDermott projects as a better shooter from 3-point range than Stauskas (38.0 percent)," while many projections also expect healthy assists totals eventually from the Michigan product. Just as with our boys Hood and McDermott, Pelton sees glaring issues on the other side of the court, "Just two players (McDermott and Rodney Hood) have worse projected steal rates among first-round picks." ... Another member of our theme for this class, Aaron Gordon (172) could be an impact producer in the defensive department right away, but a 42.2 percent free throw clip in college is cause for concern as a percentage anchor to our fantasy rosters. If you end up punting FT% with a series of big men, Gordon could be a fun gamble. ... Noah Vonleh (outside top 200) isn't likely to be a major factor for the Charlotte Hornets right away, but we're definitely keeping an eye on him as a developing keeper and dynasty asset thanks to a unique stretch-4 skill set.