LOS ANGELES -- After going through a second consecutive day of practice, Clippers guards Jamal Crawford and Darren Collison will play Saturday against the Detroit Pistons, coach Doc Rivers said. Guard J.J. Redick also is on track to return this season, according to Rivers. "I think [Crawford] and J.J. looked really good," Rivers said. "I don't know about J.J. yet, but Jamal looked terrific." Crawford, who's missed eight of the past nine games with a strained left calf, will likely come off the bench Saturday, while Collison, who missed the past two games with a stomach virus, will likely start. "He looked good," Rivers said of Collison. "He went through the entire practice. I don't think he had a sub for the most part. He was good." Redick, who has missed the past 18 games with a bulging disk in his lower back, returned to practice for the first time in seven weeks Thursday, saying the main issue for him isn't so much his back anymore but the nerve irritation affecting his right leg. "It's mostly a nerve issue," Redick said. "When the nerve is responding, I feel good. When the nerve's not responding, then my right leg has some issues. That's why it's a day-to-day thing. There's not really a whole lot you can do for nerves, except for operate and I don't want to go that route. "I had some epidurals and the pain is pretty minimal in my back, but the issue has been the nerve and how my leg is functioning or not functioning." Redick said he felt good after practice but didn't expect to be back by Saturday or Monday as he continues to regain his form. "I definitely wasn't disappointed," Reddick said of his first practice. "It was a good step forward, but I still have a ways to go though. I just want to continue to get back into shape and manage the injury. At this point, there still needs to be little bit more improvement." There was a feeling earlier this month that the Clippers wanted to determine whether or not Redick could return this season in order to make plans to move forward. But Rivers and Redick said that is no longer the case. "As long as I'm improving, there's a chance I'll be back," Redick said. "I felt I had maybe plateaued a few weeks ago, but there's definitely been some improvement the last couple of weeks, so that's been promising. I don't think we'll get to a point where they shut me down." Rivers wasn't sure exactly when Redick would come back season but said he expected him to return before the end of the regular season. "I never thought he wouldn't [play]," Rivers said of Redick. "I think at some point he'll be on the floor. I just can't tell you when. It may be Saturday, it may be in a week, we just don't know."