Brooklyn Nets coach Jason Kidd reportedly used a 13-letter word in an expletive-filled rant against assistant Lawrence Frank following the team's loss in Orlando on Nov. 3, NBA.com reported Monday. "Sit the (expletive) down! I'm the coach of this (13-letter word) team! When you're on the bench, don't (expletive) move," Kidd said, according to NBA.com reporter David Aldridge. The report did not offer further details of what the 13-letter word was. The argument ultimately led to Frank being reassigned to a reduced role which Kidd described as "doing daily reports." When asked about reports that have surfaced about Kidd and Frank's relationship behind closed doors, Kidd responded Tuesday, "Unfortunately, I haven't read anything. I've been focused on the gameplan and playing Boston. Unfortunately I can't answer that question." Asked a follow-up about their deteriorated relationship, Kidd replied, "I've been reading the reports and that's as far as it's gone." Frank was told at one point by somebody in the organization to curb his behavior on the bench during games and not be as active and demonstrative as he was earlier in the season, sources told ESPNNewYork.com. The week before he learned he would not be helping run practices or sit on the bench during games, it was definitely noticeable that Frank wasn't doing as much. According to the NBA.com report, other coaches facing the Nets thought Frank was ill since he was being so quiet. "You know, I don't know," small forward Paul Pierce said Monday when asked why things with Frank didn't work out. "That's something for the coaching staff, I think. He worked hard, he did the things that they asked him to do that I thought were on the court. But obviously some behind-the-scenes things that probably went down that didn't go well with the coaches and that's why the decision was made." Frank signed a six-year contract worth approximately $6 million, according to sources, to be Kidd's mentor, the team's defensive coordinator and help ease Kidd into his new head coaching role. Multiple reports say he has hired attorneys and will eventually seek a buyout.