Ravens cornerback Jimmy Smith was arrested and charged with misdemeanor disorderly conduct late Saturday night after an alleged incident at a suburban Baltimore bar. Smith, 25, is the fifth Ravens player arrested this offseason. Police said Smith was helping an intoxicated woman in the bathroom of a Towson, Maryland bar when she became nauseated. After medics arrived, officers repeatedly asked Smith to step aside and he allegedly refused to comply, saying several times that he was helping the woman. Smith became argumentative when they asked him to step into the hallway, according to police. Police said Smith was cooperative with officers after being arrested. A first-round pick by the Ravens in 2011, Smith was released from custody at about 11:15 p.m. ET after being issued a citation. A court date has yet to be scheduled. The woman was transported to a local hospital, according to police. A Ravens spokesman told ESPN.com that the team is in the process of gathering information about the incident. The Baltimore Sun reported the arrest earlier Sunday. Smith is considered one of the top young cornerbacks in the game. The Ravens exercised a fifth-year option on Smith this offseason, which keeps him under contract with the Ravens in 2015 for over $6.5 million. The team is looking to sign him to an extension. This is the first arrest for Smith in his NFL career, although he had off-the-field issues at Colorado which caused him to slide to No. 27 overall in the draft three years ago. Smith's arrest continues a troublesome offseason for the Ravens. Other players arrested in the past five months include running back Ray Rice (felony aggravated assault, accepted into pretrial diversion program), offensive lineman Jah Reid (misdemeanor battery, accepted into pretrial diversion program), wide receiver Deonte Thompson (felony possession of marijuana, charges dropped) and rookie running back Lorenzo Taliaferro (misdemeanor destruction of property, drunk and disorderly, July 31 court date). The Ravens' veteran players report to training camp on July 23.