OAKLAND, Calif. -- The Golden State Warriors and Los Angeles Clippers have yet to play against each other this postseason, but they've already commenced trading shots. The cross talk continued on Friday, as Golden State coach Mark Jackson responded to an observation from Clippers guard J.J. Redick about Warriors guard Klay Thompson's defense.  "I didn't know that J.J. Redick was a player-coach," Jackson said. "Is he speaking on behalf of Doc Rivers?" At practice Friday in Playa Vista, Calif., Redick discussed the Clippers' offensive strategy against the Warriors' perimeter defenders. "If Klay guards Chris [Paul], Chris is going to be in about 4,200 pick-and-rolls a game," Redick said. "We want Klay to be in those pick-and-rolls. Klay and Andre [Iguodala] are great defenders, so as much as we can wear those guys down, that would be great." Told of Redick's comments, Jackson took the opportunity to praise Paul, a perennial All-Star, before firing a salvo in Redick's direction. "Chris Paul's a heck of a player, future Hall of Famer," Jackson said. "He's an all-time great. I'm not sitting there saying we have a Chris Paul stopper, so it really doesn't matter. At the end of the day, he's going to create challenges. Not as many as if J.J. Redick was guarding him, but he's going to create some challenges for our defense and any defense." Thompson has found himself in the middle of the chatter this week between the teams, who face off in Game 1 of their Western Conference first-round series on Saturday in Los Angeles (3:30 p.m. ET, ABC). On Wednesday, the normally reserved Thompson critiqued Clippers forward Blake Griffin's style of play, telling "The Wheelhouse" on 95.7 The Game radio in San Francisco: "He flares his arm around so, you know, you might catch a random elbow or something that doesn't, you know, rub off too well on guys. He's kind of like a bull in a china shop, kind of out of control sometimes. And then you do just see him flop sometimes, like, How can a guy that big and strong flop that much?" Asked about Redick's comments, Thompson simply said: "Up for the challenge." Thompson then noted that he has experience matching up against the Clippers' point guard. "Each matchup we've played them, I've guarded him. I've matched up against Chris Paul every time."