LOS ANGELES -- Clippers guard J.J. Redick suffered a fracture in the small bone of his right hand and a tear of his right ulnar collateral ligament and is expected to miss 6-8 weeks, the team announced Sunday. Redick suffered the injury in the second quarter of the Clippers 104-98 win over the Sacramento Kings on Friday. "It takes out something that's been huge for us offensively," Clippers coach Doc Rivers said. "J.J.'s movement is often an often in itself. He's one of those guys when he goes out it changes a lot of what we do. We're going to have to do it on the run we don't have a lot of time to prepare. ... We just have to find another way." Redick will be re-evaluated on Monday by hand specialist Dr. Steve Shin to determine further course of treatment. But the Clippers are preparing for Redick to be out two months. "It's still swollen and there's some pain in there but I'll be fine," Redick said after Sunday's 105-100 loss to the Indiana Pacers. "I have enjoyed these 17 games that I got to play in immensely. I love this team and I love playing for Doc so it's very frustrating, but I'm an optimistic person. Mentally I'll be fine. ... A couple of the coaches said it will be like we traded for somebody right before the All-Star break. I'm hoping to have five more months of basketball to play this season." Rivers said Willie Green would start in Redick's place. "I like Jamal [Crawford] coming off the bench," Rivers said. "When Matt [Barnes] comes back we'll play Willie, we'll play Reggie [Bullock] at the two, we'll play all kinds of combinations. ... It's a big difference." Green started 62 games last season for the Clippers in place of Chauncey Billups and said he's more than capable of filling the void for as long as he's needed. "For the most part I have to play my game and stay within myself and do what I can to help the team win games," Green said. Barnes is expected to miss two more weeks after suffering a retinal tear in his left eye last week and undergoing surgery. Chris Paul, who suffered a strained hamstring against the New York Knicks on Wednesday and missed Friday's game against the Kings, returned Sunday against the Pacers.