An officer found Arizona Cardinals Pro Bowl linebacker John Abraham passed out behind the wheel of his black Dodge Challenger at around 4 p.m. ET June 29 at an intersection in an Atlanta suburb after he had left the Pink Pony strip club, according to a police report. More details about Abraham's arrest on a DUI charge emerged Tuesday, including that it took the officer several minutes to wake Abraham, whose speech was "very mumbled" and at times slurred, according to the report. Abraham appeared confused and "rambled while speaking," the officer wrote in the report. Abraham said he had two drinks and told officers at the scene that he had been waiting on someone to pick him up, but the person never arrived. He also said he didn't feel safe to drive and didn't want to drive, according to the report. He failed a series of field sobriety tests, including the walking and balancing tests. Abraham also couldn't recite the alphabet from C to X, according to the report, and finally gave up. All of this led to his being arrested. After initially agreeing to a breath test, Abraham changed his mind and refused to take it, the report stated. An officer took Abraham's South Carolina license, which was suspended. When asked Tuesday whether Abraham's DUI in June is the reason the Pro Bowl linebacker isn't at training camp, Cardinals coach Bruce Arians said: "No comment." But Arians said he has known about it and was in Georgia at the time of Abraham's arrest. Cornerback Patrick Peterson said the Cardinals won't let Abraham's arrest become a distraction for the team. "As a leader on this team, it can be a distraction, but the guys on this team won't let it be," he said. "At the end of the day, John has taken care of himself. And whenever he comes back we'll be more than happy ... he'll be welcomed with open arms. "He made a mistake. And he's still our brother. So we'll have to love on him. We'll have to care for him, and hopefully he won't make this mistake again to put this negative light on the Arizona Cardinals football team. We're looking to move forward from it. We can't wait to get him back just [to] see what kind of health and conditioning that he's in, and we're hoping that he can put up another double-digit sack season."