Former Cowboys defensive tackle Josh Brent will meet with commissioner Roger Goodell by the end of next week, if not sooner, in an effort to gain re-entry to the NFL, according to his agent Peter Schaffer. Brent was released from a Dallas addiction rehabilitation facility Tuesday. Brent retired prior to the 2013 season and prior to the trial that convicted him of intoxication manslaughter for the December 2012 crash that killed his friend and Cowboys teammate Jerry Brown Jr. "There are a lot of bridges that had to be crossed to get to this point and there still are bridges that have to be crossed now," Schaffer said. "But I do believe he is a much mature and aware individual. He'll be a better player and person. He'll be playing with a sense of purpose for Jerry's family, and people will see he deserves a second chance." Schaffer said there were multiple requirements for Brent to get to this point. He had to spend close to 45 days at the Enter Health Facility in the Dallas area, where Brent built up a support system that still is helping rehabilitate him. Brent also went to the Brown family to get their blessing on resuming his NFL career, and Schaffer said they happily extended it. Brent officially filed for reinstatement Tuesday.  Now Brent needs Goodell to be comfortable reinstating him, and the Cowboys must determine whether they want to bring him back to their roster. There is no timetable for when Goodell will make a decision. Dallas owner and general manager Jerry Jones, who has been consistent in his support of Brent, said he did not want to "look presumptuous" by stating an intention to re-sign the defensive tackle before the commissioner makes a ruling. However, Jones has made it clear the Cowboys would seriously consider giving Brent a chance to resume his football career, a stance Jones reiterated Wednesday. "He has played at a level before that would help us, yes, and obviously we're trying to build this defensive line," Jones said. "I know that one thing for sure, he is contrite, and I know he feels one of the best ways to pay his debt to what he feels to the family is to do what he does the best and that is be a football player. He's got it to do, but talking with him, there is a lot of resolve there." Jones has said he believes Brent deserves another chance to play in the NFL, whether it's with the Cowboys or another team. Jones added Wednesday that a story of Brent's redemption could serve as an example for others. "I think that the pluses are that he's had an experience and been through something that will make or break his life," Jones said. "There's a whole bunch of where he goes from here relative to what he's been through. He can be a great example. There's no place like the NFL to rehab your credibility or show that you are contrite. "It's a great opportunity for him under the circumstances to have made the mistake that he made to do some real good, help a lot of people and basically leave a better taste in people's mouths about Josh Brent."