Kudos to you if you're still reading fantasy hoops articles this late in the season. There are typically two types of readers at this point in the year: Those who are still in the hunt and those who are already starting to prepare for next season. This week, we'll cater to both groups by looking at five second-half breakout players who underachieved in the first half and may be undervalued (due to depressed overall totals) heading into drafts next season: Kawhi Leonard, SF/SG, San Antonio Spurs Highly touted after last year's brilliant playoff run, Leonard got off to a slow start this season and struggled to live up to his average draft position of 49.1 for much of the campaign. But after returning from a 14-game absence due to a hand injury, Leonard has been one of the league's best and most efficient fantasy players since the All-Star break. His averages of 14.6 points, 6.9 rebounds, 1.9 steals, 1.5 blocks and 1.5 3-pointers with percentages of 51.9 from the floor and 90.2 from the line in 13 games since the break reminds us why some reached as high as the third round to nab him in fantasy drafts earlier this year. It is clear that Leonard is still the same player who wowed us late last season, and he should continue to put up huge numbers the rest of the way now that he's seeing 30-plus minutes per night in Gregg Popovich's rotations. Still just 22 years old, Leonard is a future fantasy superstar for those in keeper leagues, and could go as high as the third or fourth round in next year's drafts. Kenneth Faried, PF, Denver Nuggets It's no secret that I've always been a fan of the "Manimal," but even I started to doubt him when he got off to a slow start earlier this season. Struggling to adjust to coach Brian Shaw's system -- and perhaps slowed by constant trade rumors -- Faried managed averages of just 10.4 points, 7.6 rebounds, 0.7 steals and 1.0 blocks in only 24.7 minutes per game before the All-Star break. But he has been a completely different player since the break, posting averages of 18.1 points, 8.9 rebounds and 1.1 steals per game over his past 18 contests. Now that's more like it. Faried is a fantastic fantasy player when he's earning decent minutes, and he should continue to dominate the rest of the way, especially now that J.J. Hickson is done for the year with a knee injury. Faried is a nice keeper option as well, partially because he's still just 24 years old, but also because he's a high-upside option with a low floor due to his amazing per-minute production. Tyreke Evans, SF/SG, New Orleans Pelicans Doing his best 2009-10 impression, Evans has been one of the league's best since the All-Star break, and has been even better in the month of March. With averages of 21.5 points, 5.5 rebounds, 6.1 assists, 1.6 steals and 0.7 3-pointers and terrific efficiency over his past 10 games, Evans has become the main playmaker in New Orleans since Jrue Holiday's injury. Evans is a safe bet to finish the season strong, but is he doing enough to solidify his keeper status for next season? Holiday's return will certainly complicate matters; however, Evans is proving that he can still recreate his rookie-season magic if put in the right situation. Amir Johnson, PF/C, Toronto Raptors After posting just 10.3 points, 6.7 rebounds and 1.1 blocks in 28.6 minutes per game prior to the All-Star break, Johnson has exploded for 15.4 points, 7.7 rebounds and 1.6 blocks in 34.3 minutes per contest in March. We've seen Johnson go on hot streaks like this before, only to fade into obscurity a few weeks later. But with only four weeks left in the season, he looks like a solid bet to continue to perform at a high level the rest of the way. However, I'm not completely sold on Johnson as a keeper. He's been incredibly inconsistent over his eight-year career, and while he's had some promising stretches, he hasn't yet been reliable over the course of a full season. He'll continue to be a high-risk, high-reward option at the end of fantasy drafts next season. Derrick Favors, PF/C, Utah Jazz Favors doesn't exactly fit the theme of second-half breakouts, but of all the players who underachieved this year, Favors hurts me the most. Averaging a modest 12.9 points, 8.6 rebounds and 1.4 blocks on the season, Favors currently ranks 69th on our Player Rater (which isn't too far off from his ADP of 62.2). But let's be honest: Most of us were expecting much more from the 22-year-old center. In fact, I had him penciled in for 15 points, 10 boards and 2 blocks per game, and maybe he'd be reaching those numbers if he were playing 35 minutes per game instead of 30. Favors has given us reason for optimism -- such as Sunday's 28-point, 10-rebound effort against the Spurs -- but it's clear that he still needs a little work on the offensive end before he's ready to be considered an elite fantasy option. He certainly has all of the physical tools to make good on his promise, and he'll be on my list of breakout candidates once again next season.