Oklahoma City Thunder center Kendrick Perkins expressed remorse on Friday for bringing unwanted attention to his team in light of a misdemeanor assault charge he faces. Perkins allegedly punched a woman and her brother outside a Houston nightclub in July, KHOU.com reported Thursday. While he apologized for the distraction, Perkins did not shed any details on the incident. "I hate for it to be going on right now just on the simple fact that I'm sorry for the organization and my teammates to have to deal with it, along with myself just to hear the news," Perkins said, according to NewsOK.com. "But I can't really comment on it at this moment. I would love to but I can't. So I'm just coming in, going to work and just trying to stay focused." An attorney for Perkins released a statement Friday proclaiming his client's innocence. "Kendrick Perkins did nothing wrong, and I am confident that he will be exonerated," said Matt Hennessy of DeGuerin, Dickson, Hennessy & Ward. "My client takes these charges very seriously. He is a respectful and kind person and is anxious to address these charges for the sake of his family and his team. We will defend these allegations vigorously in court." Perkins, a Texas native, posted a $1,000 bond Thursday morning, according to KHOU.com, which cited court documents. Perkins' brother-in-law, Quincy Alpough, faces the same charge. The case was refiled after initially being dismissed. "We were made aware of the allegations," Thunder general manager Sam Presti said in a statement on Thursday. "It is something we take seriously and are gathering more information. We will have no further comment at this time." According to KHOU.com, Miketta Cotton told police she and her brother were leaving the Houston nightclub Nox when their car and another "backed into each other." Cotton said she went to talk to the male driver when a female from the vehicle got out and confronted her as if to fight.  Cotton said she calmed the woman down, but then Alpough exited the car and pushed her, saying, "That's my cousin!" Miketta Cotton's brother, Ja'Keenan Cotton, then got out of their car to check on his sister, KHOU.com reported. He told police that Perkins, a passenger in the other vehicle, punched him in the head. Miketta Cotton, meanwhile, told police that Perkins punched her in the face with a closed fist. Another woman in the vehicle with the Cottons said Alpough elbowed her in the throat, knocking her unconscious, according to KHOU.com. All three alleged victims say a group of people then kicked them repeatedly while they were on the ground. In 2011, Perkins was charged with misdemeanor disorderly conduct and public intoxication after an altercation in Beaumont, Texas. He was released after posting $150 bond, and the charges reportedly were dropped.