Kevin Durant is shooting for three goals this season, but most observers are only familiar with two of them. Everyone knows Durant wants to lead Oklahoma City to the NBA title. Everyone knows he wants to win his first MVP award. But the league's top scorer says his third goal is just as important: spreading the message that being kind to others is the ultimate sign of strength. "I just want to let people know that being kind is not a sign of weakness," Durant said Wednesday in launching his "Strong and Kind" movement. "That's how I approach the game. If you see me play, I'm barking at guys, I'm talking trash, I'm being physical. But at the same time, if you fall on the ground, I'll help you up, and after the game we'll talk as friends. So it's not a weakness to be a kind person. Everybody always says nice guys finish last, but I'm trying to change that." Durant has partnered with KIND, a healthy snack food company, to promote this initiative, which aims to challenge deep-rooted stereotypes and redefine cultural perceptions of strength and kindness. In doing so, Durant and KIND have set up a website -- www.strongandkind.com -- that asks people to commit to these five principles: •  Having the courage to be kind when others may not •  Looking out for those who can't look out for themselves •  Standing up when others would rather stand out •  Leaving their world a kinder place than they found it •  Being Strong and Kind The Thunder all-star is hoping to get 1 million people to pledge on the website to follow those guidelines. As part of the initiative, KIND has donated $1 million to the Kevin Durant Charity Foundation. Durant said the money from KIND will go toward a homeless shelter he is hoping to have built. "One of the biggest things I want to do is to build a home for the homeless," Durant said. "To help get them back on their feet, teach them life skills and help them get jobs. We're in the beginning stages of it, but it's growing and I'm looking forward to building it in the future." Durant, who grew up near Washington D.C., said his experiences as a youngster were part of his inspiration for starting the "Strong and Kind" movement. "Growing up walking around the streets of Maryland and seeing so many people struggling, I always wanted to help out, even as a kid,'' he said. "And now that I'm blessed to be put on this platform by playing basketball and blessed to be making a nice income, I want to do as much as I can to help out. "This is really near and dear to my heart. I just want to change how people think about being kind. A lot of people associate it with being weak. But I think you have to be really strong to be kind and respectful."