With another month of the 2013-14 NBA season in the books, it's time for another game of fun with numbers -- this time focusing on recent splits for February. Here's a look at some of the most noteworthy trends over the past month. 1.0: Steals per game for Rookie of the Year candidate Michael Carter-Williams in February. We looked the other way on MCW's poor field goal percentage for the majority of the season because he was putting up big numbers everywhere else (particularly in the steals category), but Carter-Williams has slowed considerably since the turn of the calendar and it looks more and more like he's hit the dreaded rookie wall. Don't get me wrong, MCW is still a top fantasy point guard, but he can no longer be considered an "elite" fantasy option given his poor shooting percentages. 10.6: Assists per game for Rajon Rondo in five games since the All-Star break. After averaging 15.3 points, 5.1 rebounds, 9.9 assists and 1.6 steals in eight games in February, Rondo is clearly beginning to get his game legs back after missing much of the season recovering from the torn ACL he suffered last season. He'll still miss some games here and there, and his steal rate isn't completely back to his pre-injury form, but he certainly looks healthy enough to return top-30 value the rest of the way. 20.3: Points per game for Jeff Green in February. With Rondo playing like his old self, Green has caught fire, posting averages of 20.3 points, 4.3 rebounds, 1.0 steals and 2.0 3-pointers over the past month. Green obviously struggled as the main offensive option on a team that lacked firepower, but he has found his way with Rondo helping to take some of the pressure off of him. Green looks poised to deliver a big finish (as long as Rondo can remain healthy). 50.3: Contested rebound percentage for Blazers center Robin Lopez on the year. A contested rebound is defined as a rebound in which an opponent is less than 3.5 feet away, and can show us a player's ability to grab tough boards in traffic. Lopez's 50.3 percent is far and away the best among this year's top rebounders. In fact, of players averaging at least 10 boards per game, only Andre Drummond (45.8 percent), Anthony Davis (44.0 percent) and Joakim Noah (42.1 percent) break the 40 percent mark. Lopez quietly averaged 11.2 points, 10.3 rebounds and 2.6 blocks with terrific percentages in February, and has been an underrated fantasy performer for much of the season. 83: 3-point field goal attempts for Knicks rookie Tim Hardaway Jr., good for fourth in the league since the start of February. Hardaway is mostly a one-trick pony for fantasy purposes, but he has upside and is playing 34.4 minutes per game while averaging 14.1 points and 2.4 3-pointers per game since the All-Star break. We'd love to see him improve his field goal percentage and contribute in assists or steals, but owners needing a boost in scoring and 3-point shooting should give him a look for the remainder of the season. The 21-39 Knicks are a long shot to make the playoffs at this point, and they'd be better served giving Hardaway big minutes down the stretch. 6.8: Free throw attempts per game for Alec Burks in just 26.0 minutes per game in February. Burks shoots a modest 75.8 percent from the line, but his high free throw rate is telling of a player who is ultra aggressive on the offensive end. He finished the month averaging 15.3 points, 3.3 assists, 0.6 3-pointers and 1.0 steals per game, fantastic numbers for a guy who wasn't cracking 30 minutes per game. With a 21-37 record and well out of the playoff race, the Jazz would be wise to find more ways to get the 22-year-old Burks on the floor as the season winds down. 5.8: Assists per game for Joakim Noah over his past 27 contests. Noah isn't typically known for his passing abilities, but he's averaged four-plus assists in each of his past two seasons, and has taken on an even bigger role in the Bulls' offense since the Luol Deng trade. Averaging 13.2 points, 11.8 rebounds, 5.8 assists, 0.9 steals and 1.6 blocks in February, Noah should continue to be a top-25 fantasy option for the remainder of the season. 9.6: Touches per game within 12 feet of the basket (excluding drives) for Timberwolves center Nikola Pekovic, which ranks as the best in the league. The "close touches" stat helps us see which interior players are able to best use their bodies to position themselves close to the rim, and the leaderboard is filled with top low-post scoring options like Al Jefferson (8.9), Marc Gasol (8.0), Dwight Howard (7.9), Zach Randolph (7.3) and Blake Griffin (6.6). Pekovic, who recently returned from an ankle injury, is a master at positioning in the paint as evidenced by his close touches and offensive rebounds per game. He won't block many shots, but he's efficient and can score and rebound with the best of them. 33.4: Minutes per game for Marc Gasol over the past month. Gasol struggled upon his return from an MCL strain that caused him to miss 23 games in the middle of the season, but it looks like the All-Star break was kind to the 7-footer. Averaging 15.5 points, 7.2 rebounds, 4.3 assists, 1.0 steals and 1.8 blocks in six games since the break, Gasol is finally producing like his old self again. 11.7: Rebounds per game for Marcin Gortat in seven contests since the All-Star break. With Nene out of action for the next four to six weeks, Gortat should continue to put up big numbers for the Wizards. He's averaging 18.0 points, 11.7 boards and 1.3 blocks since the break and looks locked to deliver big numbers down the stretch for fantasy owners.