LOS ANGELES -- After months of speculation, Khloe Kardashian is ending her four-year marriage to former NBA player Lamar Odom. The reality TV star filed for divorce Friday in Los Angeles County Superior Court, citing irreconcilable differences. She also wants her last name restored to Kardashian from Kardashian Odom. The filing comes after Odom pleaded no contest Monday to a misdemeanor drunken driving charge. The 34-year-old athlete was arrested in August after his Mercedes-Benz SUV was seen weaving on a Los Angeles freeway. The DUI charge came amid a worrying string of headlines that included allegations of drug use. In September, Odom admitted in a statement on Twitter that he had been going through a "dark time" and that the "only person 2 blame is myself." He also said that only the Kardashian family was standing by him. The 6-foot-10 power forward has been out of the NBA since going unsigned as a free agent after a miserable season in 2012-13. Odom played for the Los Angeles Clippers last season, averaging a career-low 4.0 points and 5.9 rebounds per game. Clippers coach Doc Rivers met with him last month, describing the meeting as "a good conversation," but adding, "it didn't go much further than that." Odom had his best years with the Los Angeles Lakers between 2004 and 2011. The team won NBA championships in 2010 and '11, and Odom won the NBA's Sixth Man Award during that second championship run. Sources previously told ESPN that the Clippers and Lakers both expressed interest in signing Odom this past summer until his private life became a near-daily subject for the tabloid media. But his positive history with both teams, sources say, has kept the door open for a return in Los Angeles as long as he can convince the teams that he's committed to resurrecting his NBA career. Kardashian, 29, is best known for starring with her family in the long-running reality TV series "Keeping Up With the Kardashians." The couple was featured in the short-lived reality series "Khloe & Lamar." The two were married in 2009 in a large ceremony that was taped for the E! network, following a whirlwind engagement that also was filmed. In recent episodes of "Keeping Up With the Kardashians," Odom hasn't been featured and the show has hinted at marital issues. TMZ earlier reported Friday's divorce filing.