I always get excited with the start of a new season. On Tuesday night, the best athletes in the world tip it off as the NBA begins once again. Commissioner Adam Silver has done a good job in the offseason, handling several matters. Now it is time to concentrate on the action taking place in arenas all over America. There are a number of questions coming into this season. How long will Kevin Durant be out following his foot surgery, and how will his Thunder fare without him for a while? How will Kobe Bryant perform in his comeback from injury? Will the Knicks fare better with the triangle offense and Phil Jackson's leadership in the front office? One thing is for sure: I am going to lay on you my picks for MVP, Rookie of the Year, and the NBA championship. Let's start with Rookie of the Year. There are a number of impact players coming into the league this season. I am going to pick Andrew Wiggins of the Minnesota Timberwolves to win the honor. I know he was the No. 1 pick, and at the next level, he will be a special player. He is solid in the open court, and he should make the fans happy in Minnesota. My pick for MVP is simple. Whether he throws the chalk in the air or not, LeBron James is going to be the star of stars. His return to Cleveland is going to be special, and he has a new Big Three with Kevin Love and Kyrie Irving. King James will return to the throne as MVP, especially with Durant missing time early. The King will be MVP, and he will bring glorious times back to Cleveland. It will be a storybook finish; I am picking the Cavaliers to win it all. This team has lots of depth besides the Big Three. There is the rebounding prowess of Anderson Varejao, and the experience of Shawn Marion and Mike Miller. This reminds me of the two championship teams LeBron starred on in Miami. Rookie Cavs coach David Blatt will probably have a few bumps in the road, but as this team jells as a unit, getting better and better with time, watch out. There will be joy in Cleveland, baby!