NEW YORK -- Heat forward LeBron James did not appreciate the way Nets forward Mirza Teletovic fouled him with 8:37 left in the fourth quarter of Brooklyn's 104-95 double-overtime win against Miami on Friday night at Barclays Center. "He went around my neck, that was my take," said James, who scored a game-high 36 points before fouling out for just the sixth time in his career (including playoffs). "That was not a basketball play." James had jumped out in transition and was trying to get to the rim, but he pushed off Nets forward Andrei Kirilenko with his left arm and was called for an offensive foul. With the play happening at full speed, Teletovic did not realize a foul had been called, so he wrapped up James to prevent him from going up for a layup or a dunk. James was upset and immediately started toward Teletovic, who had put up his arms. James yelled at Teletovic, who responded with a smirk. Players and officials stepped in to separate the two. After the officials looked at the play, they determined Teletovic deserved a flagrant foul 1. "It was just a foul," Teletovic said. "I just tried to make a foul, and he was coming down the court. He shouldn't be reacting like that. It's just basketball." James was whistled for his sixth foul with 36 seconds left in the first overtime. He was driving toward the basket with the Heat trailing 93-91, and Nets point guard Shaun Livingston stepped in to take the charge. With James disqualified, the Heat tied the game at 93 and sent it to a second overtime. The Nets, however, scored the first 11 points of the second extra session and rolled from there. "I thought Kirilenko flopped a few times to be honest about it, and he got the call," James said when asked about the fouls against him. "The last one that fouled me out could've been a charge for sure. He put his hands on me as I drove and that got him off balance and he got the call. But he definitely flopped a few times." James previously fouled out on Dec. 18, 2004 (Boston); Nov. 24, 2006 (at Indiana); April 2, 2008 (at Charlotte); June 3, 2012 (at Boston); and May 28, 2013 (at Indiana).