EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -- The Los Angeles Lakers' injury woes continued Monday as an MRI revealed Pau Gasol has a moderate strain of the flexor tendon of the big toe of his left foot. Gasol will be a game-time decision on for Tuesday's game against Cleveland. Gasol suffered the injury in Friday's 123-87 loss to the Los Angeles Clippers. The 13-year veteran is averaging 15.6 points, 9.6 rebounds, 3.4 assists and shooting a career-low 44.8 percent from the floor this season. With Gasol out of Monday's practice, the Lakers were down to eight healthy players for the session. Lakers assistant coach, Mark Madsen, and video coordinator, J.J. Outlaw, filled in to give the team enough bodies to field a 5-on-5 game. "J.J., we can sign him up for a 10-day [contract]," joked Nick Young. "And Mark, Mark's coming out of retirement." Xavier Henry, who underwent an individual on-court workout Sunday for the first time since suffering a bone bruise in his right knee on Dec. 29, did not practice Monday. Henry was originally scheduled to have his knee re-evaluated Monday, but that examination has been pushed to Tuesday, according to the Lakers. The Lakers host the Cleveland Cavaliers on Tuesday night. "I don't think he'll get the all-clear yet," Lakers coach Mike D'Antoni said of Henry. "They'll want to get him on the floor and have him go through some stuff. Hopefully sometime soon, but [playing against Cleveland] would surprise me." Henry is officially out for the Cavs game, according to the team, no matter what comes of his examination by Lakers doctor Steve Lombardo on Tuesday. Henry experienced soreness in his knee following Sunday's workout and will revert back to non-weight bearing exercises for the next several days, according to the team. The Lakers have lost 10 of their last 11 games and are currently 7.5 games behind the Dallas Mavericks for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Western Conference. "When you have relationships, everything ain't perfect in relationships," Young said as an appeal to L.A. fans. "Sometimes my girl's getting on my nerves and I don't just leave her for not cooking me a nice meal or something like that."