The Los Angeles Clippers are looking hard at well-known veteran free agents Sasha Vujacic and Hedo Turkoglu as they try to fill the playmaking void created by Chris Paul's shoulder injury, according to sources close to the process. Sources told ESPN.com that the Clippers could make a new 10-day signing as early as Tuesday, with Vujacic and Turkoglu currently at the forefront of L.A.'s thinking. Paul is expected to miss up to six weeks after suffering a separated shoulder Friday night in Dallas. The Clippers are still without starting shooting guard J.J. Redick, who is making progress in his recovery from hand and wrist injuries but is believed to be out for at least another week. The Clippers, though, would have to open up a roster spot before making any further signings and face an immediate decision on Stephen Jackson, whose minimum-salary contract will be guaranteed for the rest of the season if he's still on the Clippers roster beyond Tuesday at 5 p.m. Vujacic, 29, has been working out in Los Angeles for months in hopes of getting back into the NBA after the former Lakers guard from Slovenia spent the previous two seasons playing in Turkey. Turkoglu, 34, just became a free agent after clearing waivers in the wake of his long-anticipated release by the Orlando Magic. ESPN.com reported last week that Turkoglu was determined to find a new NBA team as soon as he clears waivers, having spent the past few months working out on his own in the Orlando area after his representatives and Magic officials were unable to come to terms on a buyout agreement. Clippers coach Doc Rivers, confirming his interest in Turkoglu, said before Monday night's game against the Magic, "I just like him. He's out there and we should look at him. I've always liked him. He can shoot and play [small forward and power forward]." Turkoglu, a 13-year veteran, played in just 11 games last season because of injuries and a 20-game suspension for taking a banned substance. The Magic waived him Friday to prevent the other half of Turkoglu's $12 million contract this season from being guaranteed. On Monday, the Clippers announced the signing of guard Darius Morris to a 10-day contract after waiving reserve guard Maalik Wayns on Sunday. When asked about Jackson's status beyond Tuesday, Rivers said, "I don't know yet. That's why we're looking so hard because we have 10 days. The 10-day contracts are nice because you can bring guys in and out and evaluate."