MIAMI -- Some backcourt relief might finally be on the way for the guard-depleted Los Angeles Lakers. Kobe Bryant, who told reporters in Boston last week that his injured left knee will be re-evaluated sometime in early February, actually will be examined Jan. 27 or Jan. 28 in Los Angeles, once the Lakers return from their seven-game trip, according to the team. Bryant, sidelined since Dec. 17 with a fracture of the lateral tibial plateau in his left knee, has played in just six games this season, averaging 13.8 points, 6.3 assists, 4.3 rebounds and 42.5 percent shooting. While Bryant won't be playing until next week at the earliest, Xavier Henry could play as soon as Sunday against the New York Knicks, barring setbacks. Henry, who has been out of the lineup since Dec. 29 with a bone bruise in his right knee, practiced with the team in Miami on Wednesday, going through light running and shooting drills. "I think he'll take the next step and try to do more (Thursday), but he's not ready to play yet," said coach Mike D'Antoni, who ruled Henry out for L.A.'s back-to-back against the Miami Heat and Orlando Magic. Henry felt soreness in his knee stemming from the last time he attempted an on-court workout Jan. 12 and limited himself since then, until Wednesday. "He pushed it a little bit," D'Antoni said. "We'll see (Thursday) how he wakes up, if it's sore. He said the way it felt (Wednesday), it felt pretty good. He'll take the next step where he gets some contact and stuff." L.A.'s three other injured guards -- Steve Nash, Steve Blake and Jordan Farmar -- remain status quo. Nash (nerve root irritation) is set to be re-evaluated after he re-joins the team next week after making his fourth trip of the season to Vancouver, British Columbia, to work out with his personal trainer, Rick Celebrini. Blake (right elbow) has been able to participate in practice drills during the trip and has been cleared for low-impact dribbling and close-range form shooting with his right arm. He will need several more weeks of strengthening before he can return. Farmar (left hamstring tear) has resumed shooting drills but is also considered several weeks away at least.