ORLANDO, Fla. -- Just when it appeared the Los Angeles Lakers were right on the cusp of getting the first of their five injured guards back in the lineup, the team finds itself playing the waiting game again. Xavier Henry, who had been considered possible to make a return from a bone bruise in his right knee Sunday against the New York Knicks, now will be sidelined another 10-14 days, according to Lakers coach Mike D'Antoni. Much of Henry's timeline will be determined after he undergoes an MRI on his knee Monday in Los Angeles. Henry has been out since hurting his knee in the first quarter of the Lakers' eventual 111-104 loss to the Philadelphia 76ers on Dec. 29. Aside from the bone bruise, the fourth-year wing player was also diagnosed with an abnormality of the lateral meniscus in his right knee. Henry, who has missed the Lakers' last 13 games, including Friday's contest against the Orlando Magic, has participated in on-court drills the last three days while the Lakers have been on the road. "I feel a lot better," Henry said before the Magic game, undeterred by the supposed setback. "I've been able to work out pretty strenuously for the last few days, back-to-back-to-back-to-back, and then we worked out [Friday]. I did a lot [Friday] and I'm feeling pretty good about it. "They're not really worried about me hurting this part of my knee more. It's more about if I hurt something else. They don't want something worse to happen somewhere else in my knee. They want me to at least not be overcompensating or anything like that. So, that's what they're more worried about other than just this part in my knee where the meniscus and the bone bruise type stuff is." Henry, 22, is averaging 10.4 points, 2.8 rebounds and 1.2 assists on the season. "He didn't come through totally," D'Antoni said. "He's got to do some strengthening and stuff." Henry remained optimistic about his chances of a return. "It might not even be 10-14 days," he said. "We're trying a new strength program on different parts of my knee to make sure everything builds up the way it's supposed to build up so I won't be overcompensating. It that does well, hopefully it will be sooner." The Lakers are also without Kobe Bryant (left knee), Steve Nash (back and hamstrings), Steve Blake (right elbow) and Jordan Farmar (left hamstring), all of whom are expected back in the lineup sometime in the first few weeks of February.