The first week of the 2014-15 NBA season is in the books, and while we should never overreact to small sample sizes, there is still much that we can learn from early season action. It's easy to scan box scores looking at your standard eight- or nine-category statistics, but savvy fantasy owners will focus on the underlying stats that are great indicators to future success like minutes, shot attempts and usage rates. With that in mind, let's take a look at some of the big movers in the top 130 rankings after the first week of action (full rankings can be found in the table following the analysis). Moving up Marc Gasol: Underrated in fantasy drafts this season, Gasol has come out of the gates hot by averaging 24.7 points, 7.7 boards, 1.3 blocks and 1.3 steals after three contests. Yes, it's a small sample size, but the Grizzlies are feeding him the ball in the paint with a ridiculous 29.8 percent usage rate. This is a guy who finished ninth on our Player Rater just two years ago thanks to his statistical versatility, and it's certainly looking like he'll be a top-20 player again this season. Meanwhile, Marc's brother -- Pau Gasol -- is another big riser this week as he's fitting in just fine in the Bulls' frontcourt despite the presence of Joakim Noah and Taj Gibson alongside him in the paint. Derrick Favors: Favors is already doing this season what most of us thought he would do last season by posting 21.7 points, 9.0 rebounds, 2.0 steals and 2.0 blocks per game along with a 26.1 percent usage rate after three contests. We've been waiting for this type of production for a couple of years now with Favors, and it's looking more and more like we'll see a full breakout from the ultratalented 23-year-old in 2014-15. Kobe Bryant/Derrick Rose/Rajon Rondo: We're grouping these three together as players who came into the season with big injury concerns but have looked perfectly healthy aside from a minor scare when Rose twisted his ankle Friday night. The ankle injury is not a concern, and Rose has looked both quick and explosive in early action. ... Kobe is going to have to put a lot on his shoulders to make the Lakers competitive this season, which will undoubtedly result in big fantasy numbers for as long as he can stay healthy. ... Rondo, meanwhile, has racked up 20 assists and four steals in two contests despite continuing to frustrate us with his lack of scoring. Brandon Knight: Many thought that I was too high on Knight in my preseason rankings, but it turns out I may have been too low on him. Putting to rest any debate over playing time with Kendall Marshall, Knight has averaged a cool 19.7 points, 6.7 rebounds, 9.0 assists, 1.0 steals and 2.0 3-pointers in 35 minutes per game after three contests. What's more impressive is that he's been ultra-aggressive, taking the ball to the basket with 11.7 drives per game (second in the NBA only to Tyreke Evans) and has connected on 21-of-24 free throws in his first three games. Tony Wroten: Speaking of aggressive, Wroten ranks fifth in the league with 10.7 drives per game and has averaged 19.0 points, 7.7 assists, 2.3 steals and 0.7 3-pointers after three contests in the early going. Sure, he's doing it with Michael Carter-Williams sidelined, but Wroten is one of the few reliable offensive players on this Sixers squad, and he should make a successful transition to shooting guard even after MCW returns. Remember, Wroten averaged 17.8 points, 5.2 assists, 1.2 steals and 1.1 3-pointers in 16 starts last season. Moving down Goran Dragic: I know we shouldn't overreact to super early season returns, but I'd be lying if I told you that the Suns' backcourt depth didn't concern me as a Dragic owner. After seeing 35.1 minutes and attempting 14.4 shots per game last season, Dragic has logged just 31.3 minutes with 11.7 shot attempts after three contests this season. The sky is not completely falling, but the presence of both Eric Bledsoe and Isaiah Thomas could cut into his value more than we anticipated. Brandon Jennings: After two dismal games to start the season, Jennings bounced back in his third contest with 19 points and nine assists, but his owners should take note that D.J. Augustin is a more-than-capable backup should Jennings continue to be inconsistent. After three games, Jennings is averaging 8.7 points and 5.7 assists in 24 minutes compared with 13.7 points, 3.7 assists and 1.0 3-pointers in 26.3 minutes for Augustin. Jennings has always been a streaky player, and his owners should continue to hold him despite legitimate concerns about his playing time going forward. Lance Stephenson: Stephenson has had a rough go at it with his new team in Charlotte, averaging just 7.6 points while shooting 29.6 percent from the floor. More concerning has been his 9.0 shot attempts (1.3 3-point attempts) per game after posting 11.2 shot attempts with 3.1 3-point attempts last season with the Pacers. He has managed to rack up solid rebounding and assist numbers, but it looks like it might take him some time to get settled into his new role on the offensive side of the ball with the Hornets. Jabari Parker/Andrew Wiggins: Both highly touted rookies have struggled to start the season, but Parker and Wiggins owners should remain patient with the youngsters as they get acclimated to the NBA. Parker has shot just 35.1 percent from the floor while averaging 10.7 points, 8.3 rebounds and 1.0 steals in 34.0 minutes per game while Wiggins has managed just 7.3 points and 4.3 rebounds but has chipped in 1.7 steals and 0.7 blocks in only 24.3 minutes per game. Both will have their growing pains early in the season, so owners may want to temper their expectations in the short term.