RENTON, Wash. -- After all the speculation on whether he would show up, Seattle Seahawks running back Marshawn Lynch attended the first day of minicamp Tuesday, but did not practice. Seahawks coach Pete Carroll said Lynch will not practice in minicamp because he has a sore ankle. "We're going to be sure and take care of him," Carroll said. "He tweaked [his ankle] a while back. We don't want to mess with it. As always this time of year, if there's any question at all we will opt to give guys more time." But Carroll wasn't the least bit surprised that Lynch reported to the mandatory three-day minicamp after several reports that Lynch wants to renegotiate his contract. "We expected him to be here and he's here,'' Carroll said. "There's nothing in our conversations on the business side of it that we will talk about. There's no reason to. We haven't talked about other guys in that regard so we're not doing that now." Sources confirmed Tuesday that Lynch decided to attend the minicamp because he believes the Seahawks will negotiate in good faith to make changes he wants in his contract. Lynch is starting the third-year of a four-year, $30 million deal that pays him $5 million in base salary this season and $5.5 million in 2015. Sources said he would like to get more of the money this season. Lynch did not speak to reporters after Tuesday's practice. He did not attend any of the voluntary organized team activity workouts. "I talked to him a number of times,'' Carroll said of Lynch. "Everybody at some time of other has been in contact with him. We have a great relationship and he has a great relationship with our club and our players. "He takes a big pounding during the year and it takes him a long time to get his body over the rigors of the season. He's a unique player and has a unique role for us. We have to do what we have to do to take care of him." Lynch was the only veteran player who skipped all the OTAs. "People have the right to be themselves and be who they are and we respect that," Carroll said. "I feel like I've done that for a really long time." The Seahawks coaches have said they would like to give second-year running back Christine Michael more carries this season, but Carroll said he never had a conversation with Lynch about the possibility of a reduced role. "We've never even approached that [subject] because it's never been a question," Carroll said. "Marshawn has been the guy for us and we love the way he plays and everything he brings to this team. He's never taken a step backwards for us. He's never disappointed us."