With just a little more than a month left in the season, it's time for owners to start preparing themselves for the stretch run. For some of you, that might mean you'll have to take more risks than you're used to. If you are still hovering in the middle of the pack or lower this late in the season, you will have to make some drastic moves to get back into the race. That may include dropping players who aren't getting the job done, even if you've relied on them all season. I don't know about you, but if I'm within striking distance of the leaders and still have some ground to make up, I'm not going to be waiting around for players who aren't getting it done when there are plenty of viable options waiting on the waiver wire. Unfortunately, the trade deadline has already passed in most standard fantasy leagues, so the only way you can improve your squad is through the waiver wire. With that in mind, let's take a look at some players who have been bouncing on and off the most added and most dropped lists over the past few weeks: • I typically don't recommend picking up players whose value is likely to be short lived like Matt Barnes, but all bets are off at the end of the season. Barnes has been on fire over his past five games, averaging 17.4 points, 6.0 rebounds, 1.6 steals and 3.0 3-pointers, and hasn't missed a beat despite the arrival of Danny Granger. Barnes has a history of getting hot for certain stretches, only to fade back into obscurity rather quickly once he cools off. He's a must own for now, but do not be afraid to cut the cord at the first sign of trouble. • Don't look now but Tyreke Evans appears to have found his rookie season magic, posting 22.4 points, 7.0 rebounds, 7.0 assists, 0.8 steals and 1.2 3-pointers per game in 38.0 minutes per night over his past five contests. He's been terrific since the All-Star break and has finally separated himself as the playmaker in New Orleans with Jrue Holiday sidelined for the remainder of the season. It looks like Evans will stick in the starting lineup the rest of the way for the Pelicans, where he should continue to pay major dividends for fantasy owners. • Roy Hibbert has been nothing more than a shot-blocking specialist in fantasy leagues for the better part of a month. After averaging 11.8 points, 7.7 rebounds and 2.5 blocks over the first 52 games of the season, he's managed just 9.4 points, 5.3 rebounds and 2.3 blocks over his past 10 games. Bottom line: If your team doesn't need blocks at this stage in the season, Hibbert probably shouldn't be on your roster. • The Lakers, regardless of their 21-42 record, have plenty of viable waiver-wire options at the moment. Jodie Meeks is definitely the player you want in the Lakers backcourt, but he's already owned in 89.4 percent of ESPN.com leagues (he should be owned 100 percent, by the way). Ryan Kelly has shown some nice multi-category skills with 10.6 points, 5.0 boards, 1.2 steals, 1.0 blocks and 1.4 3-pointers over his past five games. Plus, his solid play should earn him more playing time the rest of the way. Meanwhile, Wesley Johnson (steals, blocks), Jordan Farmar (assists, steals, 3-pointers), Kent Bazemore (points, steals, 3-pointers) and Kendall Marshall (assists, 3-pointers) all have provided value since Steve Blake was traded to the Warriors. • I still don't trust anyone not named Brandon Knight in Milwaukee, but Khris Middleton definitely deserves a look if he's still on your wavier wire. Middleton is averaging 14.4 points, 1.0 steals and 1.7 3-pointers over his past 10 games, and the Bucks would be best served giving the 22-year-old an opportunity for extended minutes over the last month of the season. • Terrence Jones has been a regular on the most added/dropped list this season, but he looks like a hot pickup again as over his past five games he's averaged 13.8 points and 8.2 rebounds in 29.6 minutes per game. Jones is exactly the kind of high-risk, high-reward player that owners in the middle of the pack should be taking a chance on at this stage in the season. Despite his struggles, he was fantastic earlier this season, posting averages of 15.8 points, 9.5 boards, 0.9 steals and 1.4 blocks in the month of January. • Anderson Varejao returned from an 11-game absence but posted just four points and three rebounds in nine minutes on Saturday against the Knicks. While Varejao was sidelined, many fantasy owners may have dropped him judging from his ownership mark of just 47.7 percent. The presence of Spencer Hawes in the Cleveland frontcourt puts a cap on his upside, but Varejao has always been the kind of player who can produce without earning big minutes. • Kyle O'Quinn might be a sneaky pickup option in deeper leagues for rebounding and shot-blocking. The 23-year-old has averaged 7.7 points, 7.0 rebounds, 0.9 steals and 1.4 blocks in just 20.1 minutes per game since the All-Star break. It's possible that O'Quinn could see more minutes the rest of the way as the 19-45 Magic are already out of the playoff race in the East. • DeMarre Carroll is somehow owned in just 57.7 percent of ESPN.com leagues despite averaging 14.0 points, 1.1 steals and 1.9 3-pointers in eight games since the All-Star break. Overall, he's been putting up great numbers since the start of January and should be owned in most if not all leagues at this point. • Patrick Beverley might not be as well rounded as we'd like, but he's really getting it done in both steals and 3-pointers with averages of 10.3 points, 1.6 steals and 1.8 3-pointers in nine games since the All-Star break. Owned in just 6.8 percent of ESPN.com leagues, Beverley should be added by anyone who needs a late-season boost in either steals or 3-pointers.