Former New York Knicks coach Mike Woodson acknowledged that things "just didn't work out" for him on the sideline this season but says he still wants to coach. "The last two years, prior to coming into this season, was a good two seasons for our ball club and for our fans, and this year things just didn't work out," Woodson said Saturday while serving as an analyst for NBA TV. "Sometimes in life, things just don't work out according to plan. "But I look at it, overall it was a good run and it was a great experience for me from a coaching standpoint." Woodson's comments were the first he's offered in public since being fired by the Knicks. "I've got to move on and close the chapter in this book and get ready for a new chapter because I still want to coach, and I love what I do," he said. Woodson and his staff were fired last Monday by Knicks president Phil Jackson. Woodson had one year remaining on the three-year contract he signed with the Knicks before the 2011-12 season. He guided the Knicks to a 54-win regular season and a division title in 2012-13, in addition to their first playoff series win in 13 seasons. But the Knicks struggled to meet expectations this season, finishing 37-45 and missing the playoffs for the first time in four seasons. "I thank (Knicks owner) Jim Dolan, who gave me the opportunity to coach," Woodson said. "Because that's what I love to do. Sometimes organizations, they move on, they go in a different direction. And that's what they decided to do in my situation. ... I started as a player. I was drafted by the Knicks 34 years ago. So to be able to come back and coach the Knicks, which I never dreamed of doing that, was like a dream come true." TNT analyst and former Phoenix Suns general manager Steve Kerr is a leading candidate to replace Woodson. Kerr, who is close with Jackson, won three titles while playing for the Hall of Famer in Chicago. Kerr is in New York this weekend to broadcast Game 4 of the Toronto Raptors-Brooklyn Nets playoff series Sunday. According to an NBA source, he is expected to meet with Jackson before leaving town to talk about the Knicks' vacancy.