Andrew Wiggins, Jabari Parker and Julius Randle starred on a national stage Tuesday night, offering glimpses at what promises to be a loaded NBA draft class in 2014. Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski, however, doesn't think NBA teams should tank in an attempt to land one of the talented freshmen. "As an American, I wouldn't like to think that an American team would want to lose or create situations where you would want to lose," Krzyzewski said following Duke's 94-83 loss to Wiggins and Kansas. "I can't even fathom -- I can't go there. I can't believe that that would happen. Maybe I'm naive and I'm going to go read a fairy tale after this." The soaring draft stocks of Wiggins, Parker and Randle have led to widespread speculation that some NBA teams will intentionally lose games this season to increase their chances of a high lottery pick in the 2014 draft. General managers and scouts from all 30 NBA teams were in attendance Tuesday for the college hoops doubleheader, named the Champions Classic, at the United Center in Chicago. Wiggins scored 22 points -- including 16 in the second half -- in the Jayhawks' win. But Parker also was spectacular for Krzyzewski's Blue Devils, finishing with 27 points and nine rebounds in the nightcap. Randle, the top-rated freshman for No. 1 Kentucky, turned in a dominant performance in the opener, recording 27 points and 13 rebounds in the Wildcats' 78-74 loss to No. 2 Michigan State. "The hype, it was big. I just tried to block it out," Wiggins said. "The names on jerseys don't say Parker and Wiggins; it says Kansas and Duke. At the end of the day, it's not one player that's going to win; it's one team." Miami Heat superstar LeBron James took to Twitter after Tuesday night's games, hinting that the star trio made quite an impression. Hall of Famer Magic Johnson also tweeted about the talented freshmen. Wiggins, Randle and Parker are ranked first, second and fourth, respectively, in the latest NBA draft Big Board from ESPN's Chad Ford. But Krzyzewski still cannot condone any teams intentionally losing to procure more draft lottery pingpong balls. "If that is happening, shame on whoever is doing it," Krzyzewski said. Kansas coach Bill Self, however, does not believe that NBA teams are tanking games. "I don't think anybody's tanking," Self said Tuesday. "I know that guys like to play and compete, and I guess you can make sure that you don't play certain guys, which I don't think has happened."