The Minnesota Timberwolves, fresh off heavy back-to-back losses in New Orleans and Dallas and in the latest indication of their growing focus on the future, are in active trade discussions with multiple contending teams pursuing veteran swingman Corey Brewer, according to league sources. Sources told ESPN.com that the Cleveland Cavaliers and Houston Rockets have emerged as the most serious suitors for Brewer, whose arrival would be a notable boost for either team in terms of depth. Minnesota is believed to be seeking future assets in exchange for Brewer as it tries to accelerate its rebuilding effort in the wake of trading star power forward Kevin Love to the Cavaliers in August. Both Cleveland and Houston possess a trade exception large enough to absorb Brewer's $4.7 million salary, meaning that both teams would likely be able to acquire Brewer by merely surrendering future draft compensation and without giving up any key players. The Wolves, who surrendered 139 and 131 points in their losses to the Pelicans and Mavericks on Friday and Saturday, ‎are starting rookie Zach LaVine at point guard after losing starter Ricky Rubio to a severely sprained ankle. They're also starting prized No. 1 overall draft pick Andrew Wiggins and second-year forward Anthony Bennett, with veteran center Nikola Pekovic limited by coach/team president Flip Saunders to 12 minutes in Saturday night's loss to the Mavericks. If Brewer winds up in Cleveland, he'd be reunited with Love, with whom he has a close relationship after their well-chronicled success on the fast break as teammates in Minnesota. Brewer ranked as one of the league's foremost scorers in transition last season on the end of Love's outlet passes. It's an open secret, furthermore, that the Cavaliers are looking to get stronger at shooting guard as well reduce LeBron James' minutes load, so Brewer would likely play multiple positions should the Cavs seal a deal for him. The Rockets, meanwhile, have been known to ‎covet Brewer since last season, with sources saying they registered trade interest in the 28-year-old even before Brewer uncorked a career-high 51 points against Houston late last season. Rockets coach Kevin McHale drafted Brewer in Minnesota when he was still the Wolves' general manager. Brewer was part of two NCAA title teams at Florida and, after going to Minnesota with the seventh overall pick in the 2007 draft, also played on a championship team in the NBA with Dallas in 2011. ‎For his career, Brewer has averaged 10 points and three rebounds in 25.6 minutes per game.