Jose Canseco tweeted that he will sell his amputated middle finger on eBay. But knowing Canseco's history, that won't be the only item he puts up for bidding. So if you're seeking a perfect and absolutely unique Christmas gift for that special baseball fan in your life, take advantage of these one of a kind offers in Jose's Bloody Wednesday eBay auction. My middle finger! As you probably read in my tweets, I accidentally shot off my middle finger with a gun and then lost the digit playing poker. (Who knew the guy across the table had a full house!) Well, I've got it on ice in my freezer and now you can be the proud owner of the same middle finger that helped me swat 462 home runs, knock in 1,407 ribbies, win the 1988 MVP, autograph baseballs, inject steroids into Mark McGwire, type my best-selling books and flip the bird to fans in stadiums across the country (as well as to members of Congress)! Picture this historic finger mounted on your wall, dangling from a necklace or hanging from your rearview mirror! $32,045.99 Mordecai Brown's ring finger! Brown lost his right index finger in a farming accident -- note to self: Do not pack heat while operating farm equipment -- and his middle finger was badly mangled. All of which helped him throw a fantastic curveball, win 239 games with a 2.06 career ERA, earn a spot in Cooperstown and, most amazingly of all, lead the Cubs to two World Series championships! Why didn't someone tell me earlier that dismemberment could be a performance-enhancer that Hall of Fame voters approve of? Anyway, now you can own one of Brown's remaining fingers. This awesome bone is rated Near Mint 7 by Professional Sports Authenticator and authenticated by both PSA and a (former) gravedigger at Roselawn Memorial Park in Terre Haute, Indiana. (Sorry, Cubs fans: World Series rings not included.) $17,394.68 Jose Fernandez's discarded right ulnar collateral ligament! The Marlins' young ace was 16-8 with a 2.25 ERA before this ligament gave out on him earlier this year. Now it's carefully preserved in a mason jar and authenticated by Major League Baseball and his surgeon! Get in fast before Jeffrey Loria places a Giancarlo Stanton-like bid! $5,628.99 Antonio Alfonseca's extra fingers and toes! Nicknamed "The Octopus," the former Marlins pitcher has six fingers and toes on each hand and foot. That's a total of 24 digits! I've convinced him he only needs 18 or so, so the rest are up for grabs! (Note: Winning bids will need to pay for the amputation/gunshot, which is not covered by the Affordable Care Act.) $194.99 Free shipping when you buy two or more! Jonathan Papelbon's split-finger! Not many pitchers throw a splitter anymore, which makes Papelbon's split-fingers a wise investment. Note: Papelbon has not agreed to give up his split-fingers, so you will have to pry them away yourself -- and if Joe West is nearby, that might mean from his crotch. $149.99 Shipping not included. The bump on my head! Remember the fly ball that bounced off my head for a home run in 1993? It left me with a numb skull and a bump the size of a golf ball. It's no longer there, but for the right price I'm willing to time travel (yes, time travel is possible -- will explain later if your bid is high enough) and have the bump sliced off and shipped to you. (Hair not included.) $89.99 Ozzie Canseco's middle finger! Can't afford my high-priced finger? No worries -- just bid on the middle finger of my identical twin brother, Ozzie! No one will be able to tell the difference, other than the fact Ozzie refuses to shoot his off, which means that upon delivery this finger will be attached to Ozzie and you will be responsible for feeding, clothing and taking care of my brother for the rest of his life. Still, that probably will mean less grief than if the finger was attached to me. $0.99