SAN FRANCISCO -- Fifty years from now, we're sure, people are going to look back at the magical October journey of the San Francisco Giants and ask: How the heck did that happen? A team that has somehow gone 242 consecutive postseason plate appearances without hitting a home run is one win away from the World Series? Yessir, that would be correct. A team that has given up eight home runs since the last time it hit a ball over the fence is one win away from the World Series? Right. That would be correct, too. A team whose idea of a game-winning rally is hitting back-to-back ground balls to the first baseman was actually able to use that rally to get one win away from the World Series? Yep. Also absolutely correct. And a team that has now scored 12 of its past 22 postseason runs on plays that don't include one of those mysterious phenomena sometimes known as "a hit" has been able to scrape together enough runs to find itself one win away from the World Series? Right. Of course it has. This is the story of the 2014 Giants and their improbable October. They don't make home run trots. They don't steal bases. They don't feel required to dent the old column with men on base. And still they find ways to win, night after night, game after game. It's been quite a spectacle. But after their latest amazing, come-from-behind, 6-4 victory over the Cardinals on Wednesday in Game 4 of the National League Championship Series -- a win that gave them a 3-games-to-1 lead in this series, with Madison (0.76 October ERA) Bumgarner lined up to pitch Game 5 -- it's time to mention a few things that have become apparent: • The Giants bullpen, overstuffed with guys who never seem to give up a run, has been ridiculously awesome. And that has made a lot of these "miracles" possible. • Their manager, the amazing Bruce Bochy, is either a genius or a psychic. Or possibly both. "There's one thing we know about Bochy," said second baseman Joe Panik. "He knows what he's doing -- especially this time of year." Ha. He knows what he's doing? What an understatement. Heck, this entire postseason has turned into pretty much a giant Bruce Bochy mind meld. Despite official biographies that claim he was born in France and grew up in Virginia and Florida, this man is clearly a Vulcan who simply wakes up every October morning and then wills all games, matchups and strategical twists to go his way. He must. And this game was just the latest perfect example. His starting pitcher, Ryan Vogelsong, was gone by the bottom of the third inning. And his team was three runs behind at that point, which meant it was going to require the second-largest comeback in the history of the franchise's 177-game postseason history -- trailing only a four-run comeback in Game 3 of the 1921 World Series -- to win this thing. So the manager began pushing his daily October Genius buttons. Out of the bullpen came Yusmeiro Petit to throw three more dazzling innings of one-hit, no-run baseball. Hey, of course he did. Petit has now faced 32 hitters in this postseason, struck out 11 of them and allowed just two hits and zero runs. Basically, Bochy would say later, "He won the game for us." But no, that wouldn't be totally accurate, either, because the manager then maneuvered five more relievers into precisely the right spots and got them to hang three more donuts on the scoreboard. As always. Jeremy Affeldt, who got two outs in the seventh, has now gone 17 straight postseason appearances without allowing a run, tied for the fourth-longest streak in history. Javier Lopez, who won a humongous, six-pitch battle with Matt Adams later in the seventh (after falling behind 3 and 0), has now racked up 15 consecutive scoreless postseason appearances, tied for the ninth-longest streak ever. And the closer, Santiago Casilla, zipped through the ninth for his 16th scoreless October appearance in a row, tied for the seventh-longest streak of all time. Except that this time, he actually gave up a hit -- for the first time in 35 days (since Sept. 11). He faced 40 hitters, over five weeks, in between hits. But Jon Jay ended that blitz with a ninth-inning single, to the shock of all his cohorts. "What do you know," Lopez said with a chuckle afterward. "The guy's human, I guess." But in between all those bullpen orchestrations, the manager's finest Vulcan moment came in the bottom of the sixth as the Giants were rallying to win. Typically, this rally started with a leadoff walk by a .170 hitter (Juan Perez), followed by a single from a hitter who was 0-for-the-NLCS (Brandon Crawford). Repeat after us: Of course it did. And here's where that left the pieces on Bruce Bochy's chessboard: Runners on first and second. No outs. Cardinals 4, Giants 3. And 43,147 occupants of AT&T Park doing their best, high-decibel impression of a 43,000 monster trucks with no mufflers. So what did Bruce Bochy do next? Not what anybody would expect, naturally. Improbably, he called back Michael Morse from the on-deck circle -- and sent up rookie Matt Duffy to bunt. And Bochy did this even though (A) it meant matching up two left-handed hitters (Gregor Blanco and Panik) against nasty Cardinals left-hander Marco Gonzalez, and (B) the manager calling for this bunt was a guy who, admittedly, is "not a big bunt guy" and, in fact, sacrifice-bunted fewer times than any manager in the National League this season. But Bochy would explain it all later, back in his office, in a way that made all this logic he'd just defied make total sense. For one thing, Blanco hit 53 points higher against left-handers (.296) than right-handers (.243) this year, and Panik hit 99 points higher (.373 versus .274). But beyond that, Bochy said, it was time to "put a little pressure on them" (i.e., the Cardinals). "A bunt like that," he said, "can be an offensive play, believe it or not." And by that, he meant that there are times, in October, when he feels it plays into his team's strength to apply pressure on the other team to make a play, or a bunch of plays, when hearts are thumping and the ballpark is rocking. "It's a little different in the postseason," Bochy said. "You've got to grind out every run you can, especially late in the games. It's a very important part of the game. And it does put a lot of pressure on the defense." Now we should probably mention that the reason the Cardinals have made four straight trips to the NLCS is that they've been so good at making those kinds of plays in those tense October moments. But naturally, that's not what happened this time. Duffy -- who said later the coaches are always cajoling him out for early bunting practice and telling him to "visualize the place going nuts, 43,000 people screaming, first and second, we need to get a bunt down here" -- laid down a textbook bunt, moving the runners to second and third. Then, one pitch later, the tying run would score when Adams threw late to the plate on Blanco's chopper to the right side. And three pitches after that, the go-ahead run would score when Adams threw wide to second, trying to get an inning-ending double play on Panik's bouncer up the first-base line. Amazing. So that was two more of the Giants' never-ending supply of what third-base coach Tim Flannery refers to as "RTIs" -- runs thrown in. And it meant this team has somehow two runs a game over its past six postseason games. Which really ought to be impossible. Don't you think? Even for them? Asked if that seemed fairly amazing, even to him, the Vulcan mind-meld master, Bochy shook his head and replied: "Yeah, it is. I'll admit I'd love to have a homer here or there mixed in. Trust me. But we're finding that's not our way right now." Yeah, that's for sure. But if you've been paying attention, not just this month but all the way back to 2010, you know the way that other teams do it has nothing to do with the magic of Giants baseball, October-style. They've drawn up their own innovative playbook. And who cares if nobody else can make sense of it? "It doesn't matter how it gets done," said Joe Panik, "as long as it gets done. Listen, if it works and it wins you a game, we'll take it."