SAN FRANCISCO -- OK, so what's next? What insane way will those innovative San Francisco Giants find to win their next October classic? Will a seagull suddenly swoop out of the sky to steal a Matt Holliday homer and drop it into Gregor Blanco's glove? Will a popup disappear into a fog bank and not come down until the winning run has circled the bases? Will Tony Bennett come out of the stands to sing "Take Me Out to the Ballgame" and then remain in the game to bounce a game-winning single that ricochets off the first-, second- and third-base bags, in that order? Hey, it's gotta be something, because this is Giants baseball. Not just out of the box. Halfway out of this universe. So to say they found another surreal way to win another incredible postseason baseball game Tuesday almost underestimates them. What seems odd, or wacky, or downright crazy, when any other team does it, feels pretty much normal for this team. Game 3 of the National League Championship Series, then, was pretty much just another day at their zany, highly entertaining office. It was Giants 5, Cardinals 4, in 10 riveting innings, complete with wind gusts out of the "Wizard of Oz." And the winning team getting one hit in about three hours of baseball. And the winning run scoring on (what else?) a wild throw by a sidearming left-handed reliever, on a bunt, that allowed yet one more runner to come sprinting home from second without anyone getting an actual hit. "We call that an RTI: runs thrown in," quipped Giants third-base coach Tim Flannery, after he'd finished waving Brandon Crawford home on what was just the sixth error of Randy Choate's 14-year big-league career. "We lead the league in RTIs." And they undoubtedly do, not that the Elias Sports Bureau will be able to verify that any time soon. But in the meantime, and more importantly, the Giants also lead this series now, two games to one. And what else would you expect from two teams as immersed in the pulse, the tenacity and the intensity of October as the Cardinals and Giants? "One thing I can tell you is that, if you're a baseball fan and you enjoy the game itself, you cannot say that we don't play great playoff baseball -- both teams," Giants reliever Jeremy Affeldt said. "And to me, it's fun to watch these games. We definitely entertain. Both teams' fans are on the edge of their seats. If you don't think that these last three games of the Cardinals and Giants haven't sold the sizzle, I mean, we've definitely sold the sizzle. It's been crazy." Oh, it's been crazy, all right. But crazy is what the Giants do best. Over their past four postseason games, they've now scored two runs on errors by pitchers, two more on infield outs, one on a walk, another on a fly ball, and lest we forget Game 2's classic game-tying play, on a runner scoring from second base on a ninth-inning wild pitch. That adds up to seven runs on zero hits. But as Tuesday's starting pitcher, Tim Hudson, so eloquently put it, "Anybody can score on base hits, you know." And Hudson was quite familiar with the lack of hits in this game, too. Because, after his team put together a wild four-run first inning -- the biggest first inning by any Giants team in any postseason game since Game 7 of the 1912 World Series -- Hudson was the only guy on their team who even got a hit over the last eight innings of regulation. And naturally, that came after a season in which the sweet-swinging Hudson went 2-for-53 at the plate. So this was "probably the biggest hit of his career," teammate Travis Ishikawa kidded him afterward, not particularly seriously. But because the Giants pretty much dispensed with the portion of baseball commonly known as "offense" over those eight innings, the Cardinals were able to keep nibbling away until they tied this game, at 4-4, on Randal Grichuk's stunning seventh-inning homer off the left-field foul pole. It felt like a game-changing swing of the bat. But it just set the stage for this October's latest amazing, fabulous finish. Both of these teams have played seven games in the last two rounds of this postseason. The Giants have found themselves tied, in the seventh inning or later, in five of them. The Cardinals have been in that spot in six. So every player on both teams crowded against the rail, on the top step of their dugouts, waiting for the dramatic twist that they knew was coming. And 42,716 people in AT&T Park sang "Don't Stop Believing" at the top of their lungs, poised for the next incomprehensible rally they could tell their grandchildren about. It nearly came in the top of the 10th, when Holliday crushed a two-out missile down the third-base line that looked, for a millisecond, as if it was about to become a game-winning double. But Pablo Sandoval picked that exact moment to pull a Brooks Robinson backhand grab out of his hat and then scramble to his feet to throw Holliday out. Wow. "As soon as he did that," Blanco said afterward, "I said, 'This will be the game, right here.'" So sure enough, the Giants scraped together their latest, greatest, low-watt game-winning rally, as only they can. It started with Crawford, grinding out a dogged eight-pitch walk against Choate, a pitcher he'd never gotten a hit against (0-for-6, with four walks) and one who had allowed precisely seven hits to left-handed hitters all season (7-for-75). So even Crawford heaved a sigh of relief after fouling off a couple of two-strike sinkers to make that walk happen. "Once you get to two strikes with a guy like him, who has that much sink and a slider he can pull out whenever he wants, you're just trying to stay alive," Crawford said. "So fortunately right there, I got to ball four." Then, as AT&T pulsated with newfound energy, up marched Juan Perez. He hit .170 this season. He was batting .091 in this postseason. So naturally, he was up there to bunt. And naturally, he then fouled off two bunt attempts. And then extra naturally, because this is Giants baseball, he swung away and dropped a single into left. C'mon. Of course he did. So here's what that meant: At that point, since the first inning, the Giants had sent 28 batters to home plate -- and two of them had gotten a hit. One was a pitcher who was 2-for-53. The other was a guy who was trying to get a hit, because he was up there to bunt. Yeah, that's about right. And that was how the Giants set their always-unique stage to win their latest, unique-as-ever October stunner. With Blanco dropping a bunt that dribbled softly to the third-base side of the mound. With Choate scooping it up and then firing it toward the HOV lane of the 101 freeway. With Crawford racing in to score, fist pumping. And with Blanco mysteriously sprinting around first, trying to hustle into second -- even though the game was, ohbytheway, over. "I was just trying to run as fast as I can to put pressure on their defense," Blanco claimed initially. But when he was asked if, in truth, he was actually trying to run away from his teammates so they didn't maul him, he admitted, "Yes. Especially from Pablo, because he always hits really hard. I said to myself, 'There's no way he's going to get you.' But he did." That, coincidentally, had to be pretty close to what the Cardinals had to be thinking over the previous three hours: There was no way a team that never got any hits, for inning after inning, was going to get them. But yep, it did. "You know what we say," Flannery said with a laugh. "We've got slingshots and rocks. And we'll fight you every night with them. ... That's just our offense. I was waiting for a hit, for what, three hours?" Right. Three hours. But when they get those hits, accidental as they might be, they're always worth the wait. Because that's Giants baseball. "If we can just find a way to stay in the game," Flannery said, "we always know something is going to happen. And I think the other team is starting to think something is going to happen, too." Yeah, as well it should, because something always does. It was just a week ago that Blanco was describing the Giants' zany offense with the catchy phrase, "Ugly, but it works." Asked Tuesday why this whole team wasn't wearing "Ugly But It Works" T-shirts by now, he chuckled: "You're right. We should definitely get one." But the important part is this part: It works. Somehow. No matter how many of their adoring fans -- not to mention the coaching staff -- need to be rushed to the emergency room while attempting to watch this team play. "It's nuts," Tim Flannery said Tuesday, in the midst of another madcap clubhouse celebration. "I had to go in and get an MRI on my head. I thought I had problems -- because there's nothing in there but stress."