Just because Yogi Berra's World Series rings and MVP plaques aren't in his museum anymore doesn't mean you can't still go there and see them. According to a statement on the website of the Yogi Berra Museum & Learning Center in Little Falls, New Jersey, Berra's two former teams, the Yankees and Mets, will donate replicas of the priceless items stolen from the museum on Oct. 9. "On behalf of the Board of Trustees of the Yogi Berra Museum & Learning Center, we are pleased to announce that Commissioner Allan H. [Bud] Selig and Major League Baseball, the New York Yankees and the New York Mets are graciously donating exact replicas of the items recently taken from the Museum," reads the statement. "In addition, they also are donating several new items to our existing collection, ensuring that the Museum will be an even better place for fans to visit in honor of Yogi's legacy. Our heartfelt thanks go out to Commissioner Selig and Major League Baseball, the Yankees and the Mets for their generosity, as well as to all of the fans and friends of the Museum for their concern and support during this difficult time." Among the items taken were two of the three American League Most Valuable Player Award plaques Berra won in his 18 seasons with the Yankees as well as all 10 of his World Series rings. Berra also managed the Yankees in 1964, leading them to the World Series. Details on exactly what items will replaced, and how soon, have yet to be worked out. He finished out his career playing nine games for the Mets in 1965, and also managed the club from 1972-75, including the 1973 "Ya gotta believe" team that went to the World Series but lost to the Oakland Athletics in seven games. Berra returned to manage the Yankees for the 1984 season and the first 16 games of 1985, after which he was fired and replaced by Billy Martin. There is an ongoing investigation into the robbery and the Essex County Crimestoppers has offered a $15,000 reward for information leading the the arrest of the burglars. Museum officials were unable to give a value to the stolen items, but according to Steven Costello of Steiner Sports, Berra's 1955 MVP plaque sold for $40,000 several years ago. Costello estimated the value of Berra's World Series rings at between $50,000 and $75,000 each.