NEW YORK -- The New York Knicks have acquired forwards Quincy Acy and Travis Outlaw from the Sacramento Kings in exchange for forward Jeremy Tyler and guard Wayne Ellington, the team announced. Knicks general manager Steve Mills said part of the team's motivation in trading for Acy and Outlaw was to balance the roster and provide depth at forward. New York had a surplus of seven-footers on the roster in Cole Aldrich, Jason Smith and Samuel Dalembert, so the 6-11 Tyler was deemed expendable. The Knicks also had four shooting guards on the roster, which is why Ellington was a trade candidate. Mills said the Knicks hope that the 6-9 Outlaw can provide depth at small forward behind Carmelo Anthony. Outlaw averaged 5.4 points and 2.7 rebounds over 16.9 minutes in 63 games last season for the Kings. "We were clearly heavier at (shooting guard) and needed to strengthen our situation at (small forward). So this clearly helps us there," Mills said. Rookie Cleanthony Early also has been discussed as a potential backup to Anthony. "We really like Cleanthony, obviously, but he is a rookie and we wanted to make sure that we had some veteran help at that position as well," Mills said. The GM added that the Knicks were intrigued by Acy's play in the 2014 Las Vegas Summer League. "He defends, he can play multiple positions (and) he runs the floor, blocks shots. I just think he adds a level of energy that we think is missing when we look across the roster," Mills said. The 6-foot-7 Acy averaged 2.7 points and 3.4 rebounds over 13.4 minutes in 63 games for the Raptors and Kings last season. Ellington's stay in New York was short-lived. The Knicks acquired the 26-year-old Ellington in a trade with the Mavericks on June 25 that brought point guards Jose Calderon and Shane Larkin and Dalembert to New York. The Knicks signed Tyler as a free agent last season. He has a team option in his contract for the 2014-15 season. In another aspect of this transaction, the protection on the Knicks' 2016 second-round pick that was traded to Portland and subsequently dealt to Sacramento has been reduced. The trade was originally protected between the 31st and 37th picks.