Proposed trade No. 4: Broncos trade linebacker Von Miller and running back Ronnie Hillman to Cowboys for cornerback Morris Claiborne, running back DeMarco Murray, safety Barry Church and their 2014 second-round draft choice Jerry Jones has always been a provincial showman. Born in Arkansas and working the Texas-sized stage as the Dallas Cowboys' owner, he loves to bring in the locals. He hired Jimmy Johnson (Port Arthur, Texas), Barry Switzer (Crossett, Ark.) and Wade Phillips (Orange, Texas) as head coaches. The inaugural event at AT&T Stadium was, naturally, a George Strait (Poteet, Texas) concert. Before the trading deadline in 2008, Jones made a dramatic deal for wide receiver Roy Williams, the pride of Permian High School (of "Friday Night Lights" fame) in Odessa, Texas, and the University of Texas. The Detroit Lions took him with the No. 7 overall pick in 2004, and four years later Jones shipped a first- and third-round pick to Detroit. It is considered one of the worst trades in Cowboys history. In 2007, the Cowboys signed offensive lineman Leonard Davis (Wortham, Texas) a former No. 2 overall pick by the Cardinals out of, of course, Texas. Dallas also drafted Lufkin, Texas, native Dez Bryant in the first round of the 2010 draft. We mention all of this because the Denver Broncos' relentless linebacker was born in (wait for it ...) Dallas. He played at Texas A&M and was the No. 2 overall pick in the 2011 draft. Denver's executive vice president, a guy named Elway, says Miller is the kind of guy "that comes around every 10 years." He also comes with baggage, however, which could make the Broncos leery of more possible missteps off the field. Miller sat out the first six games of the 2013 season after violating league drug policies. Miller, who recorded 30 sacks in his first two seasons, would be just too tempting for Jones, in our estimation. Dallas could offer Denver upgrades at running back and the secondary -- plus that juicy second-round pick. And one less headache. Although the Cowboys are facing salary-cap difficulties in the near future, the hit from this deal wouldn't be awful because of the league's rookie salary scale. Miller signed a four-year deal worth $21 million and received a $13.77 million signing bonus, which amounts to (only) $3.4 million per season.