New York Knicks president Phil Jackson had a brief telephone conversation with Derek Fisher on Wednesday, a source confirmed to ESPN's Chris Broussard, as the franchise's search for a coach drags on. Jackson talked to Fisher about his wishes to further discuss the Knicks' vacancy. The Knicks fired Mike Woodson on April 21. Fisher has taken time to consider his future as a player after Oklahoma City was eliminated by San Antonio Saturday night in Game 6 of the Western Conference finals. The veteran guard has yet to decide whether he wants to coach, continue playing or move into a front office job. Sources told ESPN.com earlier this week that Jackson hopes to persuade Fisher, an 18-year-veteran, to make the immediate jump to coaching -- as Jason Kidd did last season with Brooklyn. One source close to the process told ESPN.com that he thinks Fisher will ultimately find the allure of coaching in New York under Jackson too difficult to pass up. Jackson essentially put his coaching search on hold to wait to speak to Fisher first after striking out on top target Steve Kerr, ESPN.com reported earlier this month. Kerr spurned the Knicks to coach the Golden State Warriors. Jackson said last week that he'd prefer to hire a coach with whom he has a previous coach/player relationship. Fisher played parts of nine seasons under Jackson with the Lakers, winning five NBA titles. "I like to have a relationship -- a prior relationship -- with a coach, so that we know that we've gone through some kinds of issues together, we've dealt with some type of battle situations, we've had conflicts, and we've had disagreements, and we know how to work things out," Jackson said last week. Jackson and Fisher's conversation on Wednesday was first reported by Yahoo! Sports. The website reported that Jackson and Fisher are expected to talk again next week. Jackson has also discussed the Knicks head coaching vacancy with Mike Dunleavy. Sources told ESPN.com that Jackson also hasn't entirely ruled out talking with Knicks fan favorite Mark Jackson, who has rejoined ESPN as a broadcaster after his dismissal by the Warriors. But sources insist that Jackson's preference is to hire a young coach who he can mold. Other candidates on Jackson's short list include Kurt Rambis, who worked as an assistant to the ousted Mike D'Antoni with the Lakers last season, and current D-League developmental coach Luke Walton of the L.A. D-Fenders. Sources told ESPN.com earlier this week that Rambis and Walton are more likely regarded as potential assistants for the eventual coach. Bill Cartwright has already interviewed with Jackson for an assistant's position during Jackson's negotiations with Kerr.