Boston Celtics point guard Rajon Rondo has found a new way to stay busy when he's inactive for games this season: Color commentary. Rondo, who is sitting out the second night of back-to-backs this season during his initial return from ACL surgery, will join Comcast SportsNet's Mike Gorman for the first quarter of Monday's game against the Chicago Bulls. Comcast SportsNet has utilized a rotating cast of guest analysts during road games this season, including ESPN Boston's Jackie MacMullan and Grantland's Bill Simmons. Celtics president of basketball operations Danny Ainge also will serve as guest analyst for two games in April. Other guest analysts have included P.J. Carlesimo, Dave Cowens, and Cedric Maxwell (who will call the final three quarters of Monday's game after Rondo's visit). Former Celtics player Chris Herren will sit in as part of Ainge's broadcasts. Celtics legend Tommy Heinsohn, Gorman's long-time broadcast partner, is not traveling this season and spends most of the team's road games providing pregame and postgame commentary from the network's studio. Rondo expressed an interest in doing some commentary and the idea snowballed. Pitched the potential for Rondo to serve as analyst for part of a game, Celtics coach Brad Stevens didn't object. "It should be good insight," said Stevens, before playfully adding, "He knows he can't give too much insight. We'll go over all the rules on Monday in pretty good detail." Added Stevens: "He'll be really good. People will be really interested to hear what he has to say. I think it's great that he's interested in doing that. He's a guy that, he understands the big picture of -- right now he's a professional basketball player, but in 10-12 years he won't be. And so what does he do from there? These are all great opportunities for him to grow and maybe find something that down the road that he likes to do. We've talked about coaching, we've talked about things. I think it's great when these guys start thinking like that and want to participate in things like that." A reporter jokingly asked Stevens if Rondo might criticize the officials like Heinsohn is known to do. "I don't know that that would be taken as well for a current player to be so critical," said a smiling Stevens. "Mike will, I'm sure, direct the conversation appropriately." Rondo has sat out the second night of five back-to-backs since returning in mid-January and is not expected to play consecutive games this season. The Celtics host the Bulls on Sunday at TD Garden before trekking to Chicago to complete the home-and-home. Rondo is averaging 11.4 points, 9.2 assists, and 5.1 rebounds over 32.6 minutes per game in 23 appearances.