NEW YORK -- Knicks starting point guard Raymond Felton missed Wednesday night's 83-78 win over the Chicago Bulls due to a hamstring ailment, and coach Mike Woodson said he could be out for "a little while." Felton aggravated a pre-existing left hamstring injury in the third quarter against Cleveland while driving to the basket on Tuesday. He was removed from the game shortly thereafter and never returned. "I don't think we're at a day to day right now. He's going to probably be a little while," Woodson said before tipoff against the Bulls on Wednesday. Felton has been playing with hamstring and hip soreness for much of the season. He first injured his hamstring in the preseason and missed four games late last month due to both ailments. Felton told reporters in Cleveland on Tuesday that he may sit out for an extended period to let his hamstring heal. He's averaging 10.3 points and 5.2 assists in 32 minutes this season while shooting 39 percent from the field. "If I can't go out there and play and perform, then it's no good for me to be out there. That is true," Felton told reporters in Cleveland on Tuesday. "But we'll see what happens, man. I'm a warrior. I want to be out there with my teammates, trying to fight with them, trying to fight out of this slump that we're in. But if I can't be there 100 percent healthy -- which I haven't been, but I've been trying -- maybe I just need to sit down." With Felton out, Pablo Prigioni was inserted into the starting lineup against Chicago. Woodson said Prigioni and backup point guard Beno Udrih would be counted on to fill in for Felton. In other Knicks injury news, forward Kenyon Martin was back in the lineup against Chicago after missing two games with ankle soreness. Martin started alongside Carmelo Anthony and Andrea Bargnani on the front line against Chicago. Amar'e Stoudemire played Wednesday, marking the first time Stoudemire has played in back-to-back games this season. He hit the tiebreaking jumper with 2:33 left, and finished with 14 points and nine rebounds in 30 minutes off the bench. Stoudemire played a then-season-high 27 minutes Tuesday in Cleveland. The Knicks had held him out of playing both games of a back-to-back in an effort to protect his oft-injured knees.