INDIANAPOLIS -- There's no doubt in receiver Reggie Wayne's mind that he'll be ready for the start of training camp when the team reports at Anderson University (Ind.) on July 23. The only thing that will stop him from taking the field for the team's first practice the following day will be coach Chuck Pagano. As far as his surgically repaired right knee goes, Wayne said he has no reason to believe it's not 100 percent healed. "No problems," Wayne said. "I'm chomping at the bit to get out there. Like I told our receiving coach (Charlie Williams), I'm the Chevy that's in the garage. As soon as you open the garage, I'm out, I'm gone. I'm just waiting until they tell me I can suit up and be a normal football player." It's been a long eight months for Wayne, who is headed into his 13th season. He tore his ACL in the final minutes of the Colts' Week 7 victory over the Denver Broncos last season. That was his third such ACL injury; Wayne suffered a partial tear in high school and underwent surgery for a left ACL tear while in college. He started out wanting to prove doubters wrong about his ability to return from the severe injury at the age of 35. Now he wants to get back on the field again and rejoin his teammates, the same ones he badly missed, again. "I felt like I kind of left them hanging a little bit last year," Wayne said. "I want to be back out there with my teammates. Guys that crawled and scratched." Wayne, as expected, did not take part in the team's three-day mandatory minicamp that concluded Thursday. Pagano said they may hold him out during the early part of training camp next month. "I'm planning on bringing some extra boxing gloves for me and Chuck for whenever he tells me I can't go, we're going to lace them up," Wayne said jokingly. "I feel great, I can't wait until camp. This is going to be a long 34 days for me. I'm excited where I am. I'm excited where this team is right now. (I've) been watching them in practice, watching them on film whenever I wasn't around. I think we have a pretty good team. "Chuck always says the sky is the limit for this team for what we can do. Hopefully we can put it all together, and we're going to make sure I'm part of it."