LOS ANGELES -- Clippers guard Jamal Crawford, who missed Monday's 112-105 win over the Phoenix Suns after suffering another injury setback, could be out another five days, though the time frame for his return remains uncertain. "I don't know when he's coming back," Clippers coach Doc Rivers said. "I didn't think he looked good the other night just running. He wasn't running natural so at halftime we said, that's good. Let's wait until he's back to playing 100 percent." Crawford returned Saturday after missing three games but played only 10 minutes in the first half of a 109-108 win over the Atlanta Hawks, sitting on the bench the entire second half as his left calf was heavily taped. He missed both of his shot attempts and finished with three points and one assist. Clippers officials said Crawford did not re-injure the left calf he strained Feb. 28 against the Houston Rockets but Crawford said he would likely be out a week with the injury and hopes to be back for Sunday's game against the Cleveland Cavaliers or Monday's game against the Denver Nuggets. "I think it's really close, I really do," Crawford told ESPNLosAngeles.com. "It's not like if I ran straight up and down right now it would hurt it but I know it's not there yet. I was still unsure when I was out there and I couldn't do certain things. It just needs to get stronger. I would say within the next five to seven days." Clippers forward Jared Dudley was hoping to return Monday but missed his third straight game with back spasms. He hopes to be back Wednesday against the Golden State Warriors. "He's close," Rivers said. "He told me he's really close. I don't know what that means but we'll see." Clippers guard J.J. Redick, who has missed the last 14 games with a bulging disk in his lower back, increased his shooting regimen on Monday and said he's feeling better. Rivers, however, said there's still no timetable for Redick's return. "He's feeling better," Rivers said. "He is feeling better, which is a great sign. I don't want to get anybody up or down but he's feeling a lot better but there's no return date." Without Crawford and Redick, Rivers said the Clippers have struggled to find the same consistency on offense despite leading the league in scoring. "Missing him and J.J. we're scoring points but scoring is much harder," Rivers said. "I really feeling like scoring down the stretch of games becomes hard for us because they're taking stuff away because they know those guys aren't there. It's not something I'm going to get used to."