FLORHAM PARK, N.J. -- New York Jets coach Rex Ryan, rarely at a loss for words, didn't want to say much Monday about the $100,000 league fine he received last week for using profanity. But he said enough to indicate he was upset. "I was stunned by it, to say the least," Ryan said, commenting for the first time. Ryan hinted he will appeal the fine. The outspoken coach cursed at someone on the field after the Jets' Week 10 upset of the Pittsburgh Steelers at MetLife Stadium. As he walked toward midfield for the post-game handshake, Ryan was caught by a TV camera, yelling, "F--- you!" Many assume Ryan was barking at a game official - afterward, he publicly questioned the officiating - but that apparently wasn't the case. His ire may have been directed at one of the Steelers' players. The amount of the fine was based on Ryan's history; it was the third time he was fined for using profanity or making an obscene gesture. Upon returning from a four-day break over the bye weekend, Ryan smiled when asked his reaction to the fine. "I did get the letter (from the league), and I'll pull the old Forrest Gump: That's all I'll say about that," he said. "We'll see what happens." Pressed, Ryan added: "I don't want to get into it. We all know I thought during the game that ... I never thought our quarterback was as protected as I would've liked to have seen him. That's a true statement. "I'd really rather not get into exactly who I was talking to. I apologize if I offended anybody. It wasn't my intention. It was meant to be a private conversation." Both Michael Vick and Ben Roethlisberger were subjected to questionable hits in the game, but no penalties were called against the Steelers for roughing the quarterback. Late in the game, Ryan was furious when linebacker Arthur Moats and cornerback William Gay made contact with Vick while he was on the ground after giving himself up by sliding, an attempt to keep the clock running. Vick flipped the ball at Gay and was flagged for unsportsmanlike conduct; he was fined $8,268. Ryan, too, was flagged for unsportsmanlike conduct for yelling something at the officials after the Vick penalty. Moments later, he screamed the profanity at someone while still on camera, raising his career total to $225,000 in fines. As for Vick, he said he "might" appeal his fine. "I don't think I did anything out of the ordinary, but somebody saw that as a violation," Vick said. "I won't do it next time. I have to understand that I have to keep my composure."