DALLAS -- Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle apologized to Chandler Parsons for publicly criticizing the team's prized, free-agent addition's weight and conditioning after Friday night's preseason game. "It was unfair and inappropriate to single out Chandler Parsons after the game Friday night," Carlisle wrote in a statement issued Sunday afternoon. "I have apologized to him and the entire team for this error in judgment. Not only is Chandler Parsons one of our best players, he is also one of our hardest working players and the kind of high-character person we strive to bring to our city and franchise. "I also made it clear to our players and staff this morning that this type of bad example is not acceptable and beneath the dignity of a championship organization like the Dallas Mavericks." Carlisle made a point after Friday's loss to the Oklahoma City Thunder to note that Parsons needed to shed weight. It was the second time since camp opened that Carlisle made critical comments about Parsons' conditioning. "It just shows what kind of guy he is," Parsons said of Carlisle's apology. "We're in this together. Everybody makes mistakes, and he came to me as a man. We have a great relationship. It's in the past, and we're going to move forward. It's over with." Parsons, who signed a three-year, $46 million contract with the Mavs this summer, reported to training camp at approximately 235 pounds after being listed at 215 pounds in his three seasons with the Houston Rockets. The Mavs want Parsons to play at 225 pounds. "An increase of 18 to 20 pounds is just too much," Carlisle said Friday night. "We talked about it today. We talk about it a lot. He'll get there, but he looked tired out there and a little heavy-legged, and the extra 7 or 8 pounds aren't helping. "I don't mean to call him out in public or ridicule him, but it's just a fact. He's an important guy for us. We just need him to get to his right conditioning and weight level so he can play his best because we're going to need him to play a lot of minutes over the course of 82 games." Parsons, who intentionally bulked up this summer to prepare for spot duty at power forward, clearly did not appreciate the comments. "His opinion of heavy is different than mine," Parson said Friday. "We kind of go at it every day about it. At the end of the day, I respect his opinion. After training camp, my weight fluctuates. I'll get it down." On Saturday afternoon, Parsons posted a shirtless picture showing off six-pack abs on Instagram. "I'm not the kind of guy who needs that type of motivation," Parsons said Sunday of his coach's comments. "I pride myself on my work ethic, and I'm going to continue to do that and work extremely hard. If that's what my head coach wants me to do, that's what I'll do." Before the Mavs' preseason game Sunday night, Carlisle declined to elaborate on why he felt the apology necessary. However, he did humorously acknowledge he saw Parsons' Instagram picture. "I received my punishment: My wife and daughter became full-time Chandler Parsons Twitter and Instagram followers," Carlisle said.