MIAMI -- San Francisco 49ers star quarterback Colin Kaepernick and two other NFL players will not faces charges in an incident involving a woman at a downtown hotel, prosecutors announced Thursday. A memo released by the Miami-Dade County State Attorney's Office said there was insufficient evidence that any crime was committed in the hotel room on April 1. Tests indicated the woman was not sexually assaulted and other evidence backed up the players' contention that nothing happened. In fact, the memo by Assistant State Attorney Laura Adams described the woman as incoherent when police and fire-rescue officers responded to 911 calls to the room at the Viceroy Hotel. She had to be sedated in order to be taken to the hospital, where she was temporarily involuntarily committed for her own safety, the memo says. "When she heard the officers' voices, the complainant started screaming incoherently about Jesus and devils," Adams wrote. A hotel security officer told police that when he arrived at the room, the woman began praying, "asking God to forgive her of her sins" and began screaming in words the security officer couldn't understand, according to the memo. She banged her head against the walls and started kicking uncontrollably. At the hospital, doctors noted that she was "severely agitated" and appeared to be in an altered mental state, although no evidence of drugs beyond marijuana were detected in her system, Adams wrote. The woman had told police she and the three players had drinks and smoked marijuana earlier in the night. Kaepernick consistently denied any wrongdoing. He took to Twitter on Wednesday to comment on the situation. Earlier this month the 49ers gave the 26-year-old a $126 million, six-year contract extension that will keep him in San Francisco through 2020. He was drafted in 2011 in the second round out of Nevada. The other players in the room that night were 49ers wide receiver Quinton Patton, and Seattle Seahawks wide receiver Ricardo Lockette. The prosecutor's memo says that an attorney for Kaepernick and Lockette told investigators they met the woman about a year ago in Atlanta and that she and Kaepernick had sex. The woman later told Kaepernick she was pregnant and he cut off contact with her, including changing his phone number, the memo says. Eventually, she learned Kaepernick and Lockette would be in Miami and made arrangements to visit them, traveling by Greyhound bus. After the woman's behavior deteriorated, Kaepernick contacted a nearby friend and decided to leave the hotel. "I'm leaving right now I'm terrified," Kaepernick texted the friend, according to the prosecutor's memo.