SAN FRANCISCO -- San Francisco became the Valley of the Giants for the third time in five years Friday as tens of thousands of people lined the streets for a confetti and rain-soaked parade honoring the city's World Series champions. Under gray skies where a steady drizzle mixed with clouds of orange, black and white confetti shot from sidewalk cannons, players waved, snapped photos and mugged for the roaring crowds from the top of double-decker buses, a change from the classic convertibles and cable cars on wheels that had transported the team along its now-familiar parade route in 2012 and 2010. "These guys play together, they believe in each other, they play as one and they never give up," baseball Hall of Famer Willie McCovey said as he waited to greet the members of his former team for a ceremony at San Francisco City Hall, the end of the 2-mile route. "That's the way this team has been for years." Fans of all ages, some of whom had staked out viewing spots hours before the spectacle's noon start time, pressed against metal barriers, stood on rooftops and climbed onto street lamps festooned with orange, black and white balloons, to cheer their hometown heroes. Many said they skipped work and pulled their children out of class against the pleas of local schools so they could catch what they described as a glimpse of history. While other players doubled up on the buses, the day's undisputed giant among Giants, pitching ace Madison Bumgarner, was given his own flatbed truck to ride. It was adorned with a sign indicating his Most Valuable Player honors from both the World Series and the National League Championship Series. Roars and chants of "M-V-P! M-V-P!" greeted the soft-spoken pitcher as he held both of his trophies aloft. Samuel Manongdo, 9, joined the chorus and waved his hands as Bumgarner went by. "It had to be done," the boy's 22-year-old brother, Jonathan, said of Samuel's sanctioned hooky. "This is a baseball dynasty." A second pickup carried the Giants' World Series trophies from 2012 and 2010, while manager Bruce Bochy beamed from atop a double-decker bus bearing this year's trophy. Corporate sponsors livened up the parade route with elaborately decked-out floats that included a panda-themed homage to slugger and 2012 World Series MVP Pablo Sandoval, whose nickname is Kung-Fu Panda. Former Journey lead singer Steve Perry stepped down from a float blaring his anthem "Don't Stop Believin" to offer animated high-fives to fellow die-hard San Francisco fans. Dignitaries such as Giants legend Willie Mays, team president Larry Baer, U.S. Rep. Nancy Pelosi, Mayor Ed Lee and Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom, who was San Francisco's mayor when the Giants won the Series in 2010, rode in convertibles. Neither city officials nor the police offered an official estimate of how many people attended the festivities, although Police Chief Greg Suhr said the number of officers on the streets Friday was at least 20 percent higher than usual, with police dogs helping with security. Although the weather undeniably kept a lot of people away, neither parade-goers nor the fans offered any sign they were taking the moment for granted. Veteran pitcher Tim Hudson, who is in his first season with the Giants, twirled an orange towel over his head to wild cheers. Two buses later, right-fielder and unofficial team cheerleader Hunter Pence, wearing a replica wrestling championship belt, threw his hands up and led fans in several choruses of "let's go, Giants!" Closer Santiago Casilla held a sign that read, "Jesus Loves You." Star reliever Sergio Romo lifted up his jacket several times to reveal a T-shirt that read, "I have issues." During the 2012 parade, Romo raised eyebrows and drew cheers with a T-shirt bearing the message, "I just look illegal."