Top baseball agent Scott Boras denied a Newsday report Friday that he urged Biogenesis founder Tony Bosch to help him cover up client Manny Ramirez's positive test for performance-enhancing drugs in 2009. Citing two sources with knowledge of the claims, Newsday reported that Bosch, the founder of the anti-aging Biogenesis clinic, told federal investigators that Boras attempted to set up a meeting with him with the intent of fabricating medical records to explain Ramirez's positive test for hCG, a women's fertility drug, while the slugger was a member of the Los Angeles Dodgers. Boras issued a statement in response to the article Friday. "I have never met Tony Bosch. I have never talked to Tony Bosch. I have never been to his office or conducted any meetings with him," Boras said. "In 2009, we received notice of a positive drug test for Manny Ramirez. It was while investigating that matter we learned about Tony Bosch for the first time. We were told he was a doctor treating Ramirez. One of our staff attorneys reached out to Bosch to obtain his medical records, like we would with any doctor." According to Newsday, Bosch asserted that Boras scheduled the meeting after the positive test and that the agent created an explanation that involved Ramirez mistaking a relative's testosterone cream for aftershave. Bosch, who was arrested on federal drug charges, made the accusation against Boras to the Drug Enforcement Administration, according to the report. Boras distanced himself from Bosch by reiterating he was not involved in representing Ramirez during his case with Major League Baseball, which concluded with a settlement. "There was no litigation in this matter, or statements taken from anyone in our office," Boras said. "The player was represented by the MLBPA and hired independent counsel to aid in his defense. MLB and the MLBPA then worked out a settlement. We were not a party to those negotiations. Anyone curious about the counsel we gave our client should examine the statement that Ramirez gave the media following his settlement. Ramirez admitted use, and did not offer a legal defense. "Furthermore, I was not personally called or emailed about these allegations. Newsday chose to publish this story without any direct communication or contact with me."