ARLINGTON, Texas -- Nearly eight years ago, Texas Rangers general manager Jon Daniels hired a fairly anonymous third-base coach to be a first-time manager. Daniels took the same approach with his second manager, hiring a fairly anonymous bench coach to his first managing job. He can only hope Jeff Banister does as good a job on the field as Washington, who resigned last month, did in becoming the Rangers' all-time leader in wins (664) and games (1,275) and guiding the club to a couple of World Series appearances. There's no guarantee Daniels will get an opportunity to hire a third manager, so he needs Banister to work. A lot of times GMs seek out polar opposites of the previous manager, but that's not the case with Banister. He has a similar philosophy to Washington when it comes to being aggressive on the bases, though he doesn't want the recklessness the Rangers have displayed the last couple of years. And he won't be bunting as much as Washington early in the game because he'll be playing for a big inning. But what really drew Daniels to Banister was his authenticity, the same trait that drew Daniels to Washington. Banister spent the first 10 minutes of his news conference speaking from his heart and without notes in a gray suit with light blue pinstripes and matching argyle socks. He beamed with pride as he talked about his wife and kids and their family journey as he went from minor league ballplayer to big league coach to major league manager. Banister laughed without hesitation as he remembered his mom scoring the ballgames he played as a youth, something he expects her to keep doing now that he works in Arlington. And when he was asked about the only hit of his big league career, which occurred in his only at-bat, Banister didn't hide his emotions. "I think as a kid, each one of us has dreams, and we have fantasies of things we think we are," Banister said, "and what we want to be and how we're going to get there and the path by which we're going to get there. "Sometimes, we get derailed. Sometimes, we adjust. And then there are some things that happen -- life just throws them at you -- that you have no answer for. Then there are a group of people that prop you up and take care of you and try to motivate you on a daily basis when it's tough to be motivated. "To be able to walk into a major league game when everybody told you couldn't, you wouldn't, you shouldn't -- go pick another occupation, go do something else. Now, you get an opportunity to do it. It happens, and you're on top of the mountain for one day, one moment in time and you carry those people with you. It's the best thank you that you could give." While you can classify him as new school when it comes to the way he uses sabermetrics, it's pretty clear Banister has an old-school approach to baseball. Running hard down the first-base line is important to him, as is making the opponent earn each out. He wants guys sliding hard to break up double plays when warranted, and he wants unwavering focus on each pitch. And you can save the excuses; Banister ain't interested. He had seven leg operations, and thought he might lose the limb to cancer, while in high school. When he was at Baytown Junior College, Banister was briefly paralyzed after a violent home plate collision. Those are among the reasons that Banister said he never takes a day for granted and why his outlook on life remains forever positive. Spend a few minutes on Banister's Twitter timeline, and you'll get a sense of his perspective. "I wonder if you look back and look at the safe choices who get hired, how well those turn out?" Daniels wondered. "We're not here to make headlines, we're here to win games and win championships." Washington took the Rangers within one strike of a title. Daniels is betting on Banister to finish the job he and Washington started.