Former Detroit Lions receiver Titus Young has plead not guilty to one felony count and four misdemeanor counts in a Los Angeles County courtroom Monday. Young was arrested on July 9 at 10 a.m. and was charged with one count of battery with serious bodily injury, the felony, and four counts of battery on school, park or hospital property. Sarah Ardalani, a spokesperson for the Los Angeles County District Attorney's office, confirmed the details of Young's arraignment. His next court appearance will be a preliminary hearing on July 24 at 8:30 a.m. in the Compton Municipal Court in Compton, California. His bail is set at $105,000. California Penal Code says if Young is found guilty, each of the misdemeanor counts could come with a fine of $2,000 or less or up to one year in jail. The felony count could end up with up to four years in jail, depending on other factors. He is being held in the Twin Towers Correctional Facility in Los Angeles. TMZ Sports reported the five counts of battery are against five different people over the course of two months and occurred at a medical treatment facility in Los Angeles. The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department released a statement on Young's arrest Tuesday. "The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department responded to a battery call on the 12000 South Wilmington Boulevard in Los Angeles at around 3:40 p.m. on July 8 as Young was involved in "a physical altercation with another male adult," the LASD said in the news release. Young was booked the next day. The 12000 block of South Wilmington Boulevard is where the Los Angeles County King-Drew medical center is located. The 24-year-old Young has been in trouble with the law often during the past few years. He was arrested twice in one day on May 5, 2013, once for driving under the influence in Riverside County, California and then again for trying to steal his car from the towing yard. He was also charged with four felonies and seven misdemeanors from a burglary in Orange County, California in 2013. His father, Richard, has told reporters his son has a mental illness. On ESPN's "NFL Insiders" on Tuesday, Chicago Bears wide receiver Brandon Marshall -- who had tried to reach out to Young in the past -- expressed concern for the former Lions receiver. "I'm concerned for all the guys [with mental health issues]," Marshall said. "I'm not concerned just for the NFL, but all of the other Americans out there suffering. Our country is too great to be in this situation for this still to be a taboo topic. "So I think what we're witnessing and what we're looking at right now is the longer it goes not treated, the worse it gets. And I know he's been in and out of different facilities. But I don't think he's had the proper treatment. The interesting thing about it is it's really treatable. "If he gets the proper diagnosis, if he gets in the right facility, we'll see this guy be able to be implemented back into the workforce, back into the NFL and continue with his career or go do something else." Young was selected by the Detroit Lions with the No. 44 pick of the 2011 draft. He played 26 games for Detroit, catching 81 passes for 990 yards and 10 touchdowns before being released in February, 2013. The St. Louis Rams claimed him off waivers and released him soon after.