Former Buffalo Sabres owner Tom Golisano confirmed Thursday that he has interest in bidding on the Buffalo Bills when they are put up for sale. "Everybody has a degree of reasonableness," Golisano said during an appearance at a local school, according to the Rochester Democrat & Chronicle. "If it costs way more than I'm willing to pay, then I won't feel bad if I don't get them. I'll only feel bad if they move out of Western New York. "If they get moved out of Western New York, I'm not going to feel very good about it. I might even feel partially responsible. Not totally, but partially responsible." Golisano is the only potential bidder from Western New York who has publicly revealed his intentions, which would be to keep the Bills in the region. "The important thing is someone buys (the team) and keeps it in Western New York," he said. "Do I feel it has to be me? No, I'm not possessed about owning the Buffalo Bills, just as I wasn't possessed about owning the Buffalo Sabres. They were in danger of leaving, too. In fact they were a lot closer to leaving than the Bills are. I got involved then because I wanted to keep that entity in Western New York, and I want to keep the Buffalo Bills in Western New York." Businessman Donald Trump has also expressed a desire to buy the team and keep it in the Buffalo area. The Bills are undergoing $130 million in renovations to Ralph Wilson Stadium, which were partially funded by Erie County and New York State. With the team, local, and state leaders already exploring the possibility of a new stadium, Golisano questioned those renovations Thursday. "It doesn't sound like they did a lot of planning," he said. "Why go through all that renovation and $130 million when you're going to build a new stadium anyway?" NFL commissioner Roger Goodell has maintained that the Bills need a new stadium to stay viable in the region, while local and team officials have been adamant about keeping a retrofit or more extensive renovation of Ralph Wilson Stadium on the table. In addition to Golisano's possible bid, rock star Jon Bon Jovi and Larry Tanebaum, chairman of Toronto-based Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment, are expected to form a group to bid on the team, according to a Toronto Sun report last month. The Bills are expected to begin accepting bids later this month.