John Wall wasn't happy with his triple-double in Wednesday's loss to the Boston Celtics. Neither was Washington Wizards coach Randy Wittman, who sat down with Wall to discuss the point guard trying to do too much. Wall scored 28 points with 11 rebounds and 10 assists in the overtime loss, but he also shot just 9-for-29 from the field and committed six turnovers. After the game, Wittman said his players came down with a case of "I got mine," looking to pad their stats against a struggling team. Wall and Wittman met to watch the game tape Thursday. "John's a competitor. I sat down and talked with him," Wittman said, according to CSNWashington.com. "It's not a malicious thing. He wanted to try to take over the game for us. Sometimes you try so hard it's counterproductive because he's the one guy that can get a lot of guys shots, get them into a rhythm especially at the start of the game. That's what he's got to try to continue to do. When he does that, they're in a rhythm. John's going to get his opportunities. The ball is in his hands." Wall took 13 more shots than any other Wizards player. He might have been trying to take advantage of a matchup against undersized Celtics rookie Phil Pressey, who was starting for the injured Rajon Rondo. But Pressey scored a season-high 20 points, including a 3-pointer in the final minute of overtime. "Last night was really the first time in a while I saw in his heart that he was going to try to do it his own," Wittman said of Wall. "I like that competitiveness in him because he's not scared of the moment. But sometimes your biggest strength can be your biggest weakness. That turned into that last night. I think he sees it. We sat and talked and looked and saw the different areas, especially early where guys that need to get involved need to get involved." Wall conceded that he took too many shots Wednesday. "I took too many shots tonight and didn't move the ball like we're supposed to in the first half," Wall said. "For some reason, we don't go out there in that first half when we've got an opportunity to go [above] .500 and play as a team. We get to playing selfish."