NEW YORK -- The Toronto Raptors found themselves being asked about the officiating again after another playoff loss to the Brooklyn Nets on Friday night. As the Raptors cut a 15-point fourth-quarter deficit down to four, Greivis Vasquez was called for a foul on Deron Williams and then was whistled for a technical with 47.3 seconds left. The Raptors still closed to within one with 34.3 seconds left before the Nets escaped with a 102-98 Game 3 win at Barclays Center. Toronto coach Dwane Casey was asked what he thought about the foul and technical called on Vasquez. Casey wanted to avoid criticizing the officiating, which has become a bit of a theme during this first-round series. "Again, I like my money," Casey said. "But I've got to go back and look at the tape. Those kind of calls broke our back. It was the difference in the game. "Again, they're a great team, give them credit. We respect them, but let's let the game be dictated by that. I've got to go back and see what the calls were. I had a different view of them evidently as those guys did." Following the Nets' 94-87 win in Game 1 in Toronto, the Raptors were disheartened to see Brooklyn whistled for just one personal foul in the fourth quarter compared to the six fouls for which they were called. Casey called it "unusual." In Game 2, the Nets were whistled for 10 personal fouls compared to the Raptors' eight as Toronto pulled out a 100-95 win. On Friday night, the Raptors were called for 12 personal fouls compared to the Nets' nine in the fourth. "I mean, is that something new?" Raptors forward Patrick Patterson said when asked about the officiating following Game 3. "In regards to calls not going our way or us feeling a certain way about referees, it has been taking place all year long. "For us to think it is going to change in the playoffs, we are fooling ourselves. We have to battle through, we have to fight through and we have to concentrate on ourselves rather than things we cannot control as far as the referees, Brooklyn or even the fans."