Kevin C. Cox/Getty ImagesJeff Teague and George Hill square off this weekend in the opening round of the NBA playoffs. Insider offers a breakdown of every playoff series using an expert combination of scouting from Amin Elhassan and advanced metrics from Bradford Doolittle to answer three crucial questions. Also included are predictions from the writers, simulation results and the classic Log5 formula for determining matchup probabilities. In a battle of two teams moonwalking their way into the playoffs, the Indiana Pacers will seek to regain their early-season rhythm, while the Atlanta Hawks hope they have the formula to beat Indiana's vaunted defense. These two clubs used to be Central Division foes prior to league realignment in 2004-05, and were coached by two legends in Larry Brown and Lenny Wilkens. Now they play in different divisions (Indiana in the Central and Atlanta in the Southeast) and are led by up-and-coming coaches in Frank Vogel and Mike Budenholzer. The Hawks gave the Pacers fits during the season, especially in a 19-point drubbing on Indiana's home floor on April 6, at about the height of the Pacers' late-season stupor. Can Indiana wake up in time for the title run that once seemed all but inevitable? Here's what to expect from the Pacers-Hawks first-round series. Atlanta Hawks at Indiana Pacers Eastern Conference playoffs First-round preview To read more of Insider's scouting report of the Atlanta-Indiana playoff series, become an Insider today. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Amin Elhassan Follow Archive Video coordinator, college scout, Phoenix Suns Assistant director of basketball operations, Phoenix Suns MBA from Arizona State University Bradford Doolittle Follow Archive Sports reporter, Kansas City Star, 2002-09 Writer, Baseball, Baseball Prospectus Co-author, Pro Basketball Prospectus Member, Baseball Writers Association of America Member, Professional Basketball Writers Association