The 2014 NBA draft continues to look better and better by the week. At this point there are six players getting serious looks as a potential No. 1 pick. The freshman class is particularly strong. Seven players in our top 10 and 11 in our top 20 are in their first year. In other words, not only is the draft deep at the top, it has significant depth all the way into the teens. For teams with multiple picks, this is a cornucopia. Here's our fourth Big Board of the 2014 NBA draft. 1 Andrew Wiggins SCHOOL: Kansas AGE: 18 HT/WT: 6-8, 195 POS: SG 15.9 PPG 5.9 RPG 1.2 APG Wiggins continues to face harsh scrutiny, especially after a tepid performance in the Battle 4 Atlantis and career-low six points against UTEP. But he's recently looked the part of the No. 1 pick again, scoring 22 points against Colorado and 26 against Florida. Wiggins has become more aggressive taking the ball to the basket and took a total of 17 free throws in those two games before having another off game against New Mexico on Saturday. Given that scouts are primarily concerned with his lack of aggressiveness, that's a very good sign if he can start doing it consistently. Previous rank: No. 1 | PLAYER CARD 2 Jabari Parker SCHOOL: Duke AGE: 18 HT/WT: 6-8, 241 POS: SF 22.1 PPG 7.8 RPG 1.8 APG The longer the season goes on, the more scouts are switching their allegiances to Parker as their favorite to go No. 1. He's a scoring machine. He has a high basketball IQ. He can play multiple positions on the floor, and his lack of elite defensive abilities combined with the occasional struggle against long, athletic defenders are the only real knocks on him at the moment. Previous rank: No. 3 | PLAYER CARD 3 Joel Embiid SCHOOL: Kansas AGE: 19 HT/WT: 7-0, 240 POS: C 9.8 PPG 6.5 RPG 2.4 BPG Embiid has made his way into KU's starting lineup, and while his numbers don't scream No. 1 pick, every time he's on the floor he's a game changer. No one thought Embiid would be this far along so early. He seems to be getting better by the game and had a career-high 18 points against New Mexico on Saturday. While he might be a bit of a risky No. 1 pick, the upside is evident. I'm not sure there's a player in this draft who could be more dominant if he lived up to his potential. Previous rank: No. 6 | PLAYER CARD To see the rest of Chad Ford's Big Board of the top 30 prospects in the 2014 NBA draft, you must be an ESPN Insider. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Chad FordSenior Writer, NBA Insider Follow Archive Senior NBA Writer for ESPN.com ESPN Insider NBA Draft Analyst since 2002 Writes ESPN's NBA Draft Top 100 and Lottery Mock Draft