AP Photo/Sue OgrockiKevin Durant's Thunder square off with Tim Duncan's Spurs for the Western Conference crown. Insider offers a breakdown of every playoff series using an expert combination of scouting from Amin Elhassan and advanced metrics from Bradford Doolittle to answer three crucial questions. Also included are predictions from the writers and the classic Log5 formula for determining matchup probabilities. It's a rematch of the 2012 Western Conference finals, and wouldn't you know it, the basketball gods have made a house call to the Oklahoma City Thunder again. After overcoming the straitjacket defense of Memphis in the first round and receiving a tiny bit of luck to defeat the Clippers in the conference semifinals, the injury bug has claimed a key member from the Thunder's roster for the second straight postseason. Meanwhile, the San Antonio Spurs had their own scare in the first round against a pesky Dallas team, but eventually righted the ship and crushed Portland in the conference semifinals. In the process, Tony Parker suffered a strained hamstring, but he's expected to play through it. Can the Thunder fulfill their destiny as the next great NBA team, or will the Spurs take one step closer to avenging the sins of last season? Oklahoma City Thunder vs. San Antonio Spurs Western Conference finals preview To read more of Insider's scouting report of the Heat-Pacers playoff series, become an Insider today. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Amin Elhassan Follow Archive Video coordinator, college scout, Phoenix Suns Assistant director of basketball operations, Phoenix Suns MBA from Arizona State University Bradford Doolittle Follow Archive Sports reporter, Kansas City Star, 2002-09 Writer, Baseball, Baseball Prospectus Co-author, Pro Basketball Prospectus Member, Baseball Writers Association of America Member, Professional Basketball Writers Association