Noah Graham/NBAE/Getty ImagesOne of the Clippers' greatest challenges will be figuring out how to stop Kevin Durant. Insider offers a breakdown of every playoff series using an expert combination of scouting from Amin Elhassan and advanced metrics from Bradford Doolittle to answer three crucial questions. Also included are predictions from the writers and the classic Log5 formula for determining matchup probabilities. Have you caught your breath after the most exciting first round in NBA playoffs history? No? Too bad, because the Los Angeles Clippers and the Oklahoma City Thunder meet in the second round after surviving grueling seven-game series against lower seeds that had a lot of fight. The Clippers overcame the indignity and distraction posed by the bigoted remarks from team owner Donald Sterling. Oklahoma City's off-court controversy was much milder: The Thunder had to deal with a local paper questioning the reliability of presumed MVP Kevin Durant. Still, both teams managed to dispatch their feisty opponents in seven games, and now face off for the right to move on to the conference finals. They split the regular-season series 2-2, with each team snagging a victory on the road. Who will prevail? Oklahoma City Thunder at Los Angeles Clippers Western Conference playoffs Semifinal preview To read more of Insider's scouting report of the Thunder-Clippers playoff series, become an Insider today. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Amin Elhassan Follow Archive Video coordinator, college scout, Phoenix Suns Assistant director of basketball operations, Phoenix Suns MBA from Arizona State University Bradford Doolittle Follow Archive Sports reporter, Kansas City Star, 2002-09 Writer, Baseball, Baseball Prospectus Co-author, Pro Basketball Prospectus Member, Baseball Writers Association of America Member, Professional Basketball Writers Association