Eight teams have contacted Andrew Bynum's representatives about adding the 7-foot center to their rosters, according to a source close to the situation. Bynum, who was released by the Chicago Bulls on Tuesday, is expected to sign with a club by the end of the week, the source said. The Miami Heat and Los Angeles Clippers are widely believed to be among the teams interested in acquiring the two-time championship center. One league executive who recently spoke with Heat president Pat Riley told ESPN.com, "I'm certain that Riley is going to go hard after Bynum." Sources told ESPN.com's Marc Stein on Wednesday that the Dallas Mavericks are among the eight teams that have registered interest in Bynum this week. But Dallas -- one of the prime bidders for Bynum's services this past summer before he signed with the Cleveland Cavaliers -- is limited to offering him a minimum salary. Sources say, furthermore, that the Brooklyn Nets are not planning to pursue Bynum despite being granted a disabled player exception worth up to $5.25 million in the wake of Brook Lopez's season-ending foot injury. The Atlanta Hawks, meanwhile, are "unlikely" to lodge a bid for Bynum to replace the injured Al Horford, according to one source close to the process. Bynum's decision will come down to several factors, according to the source. He will consider playing time, the club's chances for playoff success and money. Financial compensation will not be a small factor considering that Bynum's release by the Bulls meant he receives only $6 million of his $12.3 million salary for this season. Bynum was traded from Cleveland to Chicago on Monday. "It doesn't necessarily have to be a contender," the source said of Bynum's choice. "He's looking to play and be utilized." Miami has its midlevel exception available as well as a need for a viable big man to combat Indiana's Roy Hibbert. The Clippers, on the other hand, are limited to offering Bynum the veteran's minimum. Bynum cleared waivers Thursday night, officially making him a free agent.