Gary Dineen/Getty ImagesBoth Derrick Rose and Kyrie Irving have been minor disappointments early in the 2013-14 season. Every Thursday, Joe Kaiser scours the league and offers his fantasy insight with the help of Insider's team of experts including Kevin Pelton, Bradford Doolittle, Amin Elhassan, Chad Ford, Tom Haberstroh and David Thorpe. Also included is Joe's injury update chart. If you waited too long to address the point guard position in your draft, you're likely in one of two camps right now: 1. Loving every second of the Michael Carter-Williams experience 2. Wishing you were smart enough to either draft a point guard earlier or clairvoyant enough to pick Carter-Williams For the majority of you who fall into that second group, the first two weeks of the NBA season has likely meant relying on temporary fixes such as Nate Wolters, Avery Bradley, Reggie Jackson, Alec Burks and Patrick Beverley. There's should be no shame in that, however. Point guards went fast in the draft, and after the first 50 picks, there was more value in pursuing potential breakout options at other positions -- guys like Nikola Vucevic, Bradley Beal, Andre Drummond and Derrick Favors -- than reaching on the 15th- or 16th-best point guard. Luckily for owners in need of stronger point guard play, several notable PGs are off to slow starts this season, and with a little luck, you might be able to find an owner eager enough to unload one of them for pennies on the dollar. If this sounds like your situation, here are four point guards whom you may want to target, including the chances of acquiring and risk level associated with each. To read more of Joe Kaiser's fantasy hoops column, including his take on slow-starting point guards to trade for and injury updates, become an ESPN Insider today. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Joe KaiserFantasy, Insider Follow Archive Fantasy basketball, NBA analyst for Insider NBA, MLB analyst for Rumor Central