OWINGS MILLS, Md. -- The Baltimore Ravens have received no indication on when the NFL will announce its discipline on running back Ray Rice, and coach John Harbaugh said the team won't have to adjust to a possible suspension until after the second preseason game. "We'll just be business as usual until then," Harbaugh said Tuesday after a short practice with quarterbacks and rookies. "We're installing [the offense and defense] for the first six days [of training camp] and work situations through the first two preseason games. Once we get past the second preseason game, then we'll need to know. Whenever they're ready to let us know, we'll be ready to hear it." Rice is expected to receive a multi-game suspension for allegedly striking his then-fiancée unconscious in February. The Ravens' workload at running back will be based on the length of Rice's absence. His legal situation was wrapped up on May 20, when he was accepted into a pretrial intervention program to avoid trial on aggravated assault charges. Rice then met with NFL commissioner Roger Goodell on June 16. Harbaugh was asked whether he was surprised that the NFL has yet to announce its punishment by the start of training camp, which officially begins for the Ravens on Thursday morning. "It's not for me to say. It's not my decision to make or any of us here. It's in other people's hands," Harbaugh said. "I'm sure there are a lot of complications in making those kind of decisions. There are many sides to every story. There are a lot of factors. There are other people involved; there are other disciplinary situations involved around the league. "They have to be weighed in and taken in context, and they're going to have to sort through that to be fair about the whole thing. I know the league is very judicious about that. I think they work really hard to do the right thing. I don't think they worry about public opinion too much. I think they want to do the right thing by the people involved and see where it goes." Rice was one of five Ravens players arrested this offseason. The latest was cornerback Jimmy Smith, who was arrested and charged with misdemeanor disorderly conduct on July 12. "I understand what happened," Harbaugh said. "I heard it from a lot of different sources and I haven't thought about it since. I think I've given it the amount of attention that it deserves." When asked whether he is going to talk to his team about the off-the-field issues, Harbaugh said, "I think that point has been made plenty."