MINNEAPOLIS -- Los Angeles Clippers forward Blake Griffin will miss Monday's game against the Minnesota Timberwolves with back spasms. He was forced him to miss most of Saturday's game against the Houston Rockets with the injury. The Clippers will also be without guard Jamal Crawford, who will be sidelined with a sore left Achilles. Griffin, who had played in 105 consecutive games, departed Saturday's game with 5:48 left in the first quarter, grabbing his lower back as he walked off the court and continuing to hold it as he bit his jersey in the Clippers' huddle during a timeout. He then limped off the court with Clippers trainer Jasen Powell and went to the locker room. "It has improved since Saturday, that's for sure," Griffin said Monday. "I still wouldn't say 100 percent. ... I've been dealing with it off and on. Most of the time it's manageable, but I felt like Saturday wasn't really manageable. I got bumped, but it wasn't a hard bump or anything. It was a bump. I feel like if it hadn't happened there it would have happened the next time I was in the lane. I don't really think it was the force." Crawford, who recently missed eight of nine games with a strained left calf, was taken out of Saturday night's game with 5:03 left and did not return as his left leg was looked at. "It's a concern because every time he plays two games it seems like since he's been back he gets sore again," Rivers said of Crawford. "We're going to talk about that in the next couple of days ... and find out what the best way is to go forward with it." Crawford had said Saturday that he thought he would be able to play in Monday's game. "I'll be all right," Crawford said. "It's going to take me a while to get back in form. It's just frustrating because I know I have to go through it, but I'll be all right." The Clippers were already playing without J.J. Redick, who has missed the past 23 games with a bulging disk in his lower back, and Danny Granger, who was sent back home for the final three games of this road trip with a strained left hamstring. The Clippers, however, could be close to getting Redick back as he has shot around with the team during the road trip. "He looks great," Rivers said. "I kid him because he's going up against chairs and he's killing the chair and making all his shots but he's moving and he looks good." Rivers said he hopes the Clippers will be back at full strength in time for the playoffs next month but isn't going to worry about it with eight games left in the regular season. "I'm not concerned about it because there's nothing I can do about it," Rivers said. "Obviously I want everyone to be healthy going into the playoffs but we still have a bunch of games that we have to play. There's nothing I can do about it. I'm hoping we're all healthy."