Brett Favre says he is not afraid of getting booed when he returns to Lambeau Field. The former Green Bay Packers quarterback, in an interview Monday on ESPN 1000 in Chicago, said he isn't concerned about receiving a negative reaction when he finally comes back to be honored by the team for which he played 16 seasons and led to two Super Bowl appearances. Favre's former Packers teammate and close friend during their playing days, tight end Mark Chmura, recently told ESPNWisconsin.com that Favre backed out of an appearance last season at Lambeau Field for fear of being booed. "I've heard that was a concern of mine, and I'm here to tell you I'm not," Favre said Monday. "I'm not worried about that. I'm well aware that you can't please everyone. Not everyone's going to like you regardless, and you know what, so be it. But I think the 16 years that I had in Green Bay speaks for itself. "Yeah, you're right, I have played with other teams, but I will be remembered as a Packer. I feel that. I think the true Packer backers, which there are tons out there, feel the same way. I'm not the first player to play for other teams or rivals." Favre, who was traded to the New York Jets in 2008 and later played two seasons with the Minnesota Vikings, said he thinks time has healed whatever bad feelings existed. "As time goes by, that's how I will be remembered, as a Packer, and that's how I want to be remembered," Favre said. The Packers and Favre both have confirmed that the two sides discussed a return appearance last season, but Favre said his high school football coaching duties got in the way. Earlier this month, Packers president Mark Murphy said the team does not plan to retire Favre's No. 4 this season but hopes to have that done before Favre is eligible for the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2016. Murphy would not rule out the possibility that Favre could return for a game this season but said that fan reaction was a concern. "That is an issue," Murphy said. "He doesn't want it, and neither do we. He wouldn't want to come back and get booed. You can't control 80,750 people. I really think as time goes on, every year that passes, it's less likely that he would get booed, but that is an issue." Favre said he has been in touch with Murphy and former team president Bob Harlan. "In spite of what people may think -- and I really don't pay attention to what people are saying -- I just know the facts, and the facts are that I feel like the relationship is a good relationship," Favre said. "I've had contact with Mark Murphy on a regular basis in regards to how we're going to do this, the ceremony. Bob Harlan ... is working diligently. He's kind of spearheading the Packer Hall of Fame/jersey retirement ceremony, and I have been working with him diligently on getting this done."