NEW YORK -- The Brooklyn Nets revealed plans to build a state-of-the-art, $45 million practice facility, which will be called "Hospital for Special Surgery Training Center," during a news conference Thursday. The facility, which is located at Industry City in the Sunset Park section of Brooklyn, features panoramic views of the New York Harbor and is expected to be ready for use in 2015-16. "This will be the only pro basketball team that plays and practices in the borough of New York City, because there's another team that doesn't do that," Nets general manager Billy King said, referring to the New York Knicks, who practice in Greenburgh, N.Y. King believes the facility will be helpful in attracting prime free agents. "It can definitely help," Nets coach Jason Kidd said. "It's first-class." "They're creating a place where guys are going to want to be. It's awesome," Nets center Mason Plumlee said. "I was telling Billy, I want an apartment with this type of view. We got a practice facility with it. Now I want an apartment with it." According to a news release, the training center will occupy 70,000 square feet on the eighth floor and rooftop of the historic waterfront warehouse. Its amenities will include two full basketball courts, a weight room, a training pool and two hydro pools, a rooftop entertainment space, an 18-seat multimedia theater, 3,000 square feet of hospitality/players' lounge space and a media interview/workroom. Onexim Sports and Entertainment President Irina Pavlova, team CEO Brett Yormark and Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams also attended the news conference. Brooklyn currently practices at a facility in East Rutherford, N.J. The Nets have been practicing at that location since 1998. The Nets envision that some of their players will eventually move to Brooklyn. None of them currently live in the borough, with many opting to live close to the team's current training center in New Jersey. Once the facility is completed, the Nets will have 100 percent of their team operations based in Brooklyn.