NEW YORK -- Brooklyn Nets stretch forward Mirza Teletovic will start in place of Brook Lopez Monday night against the Indiana Pacers, coach Jason Kidd said. Power forward Kevin Garnett will move over to the center spot. Lopez is out for the season due to a fractured fifth metatarsal of his right foot. Teletovic will not be named the starter on a permanent basis, with Kidd saying, "We'll just take it one day at a time." Teletovic, 28, has started two games this season, averaging 14.5 points on 47.6 percent shooting. In 19 games, he's shooting 41.4 percent from 3-point range. "Well, I think Garnett at the five has had some success, and then Mirza being able to stretch the defense and shoot the ball, but also hopefully helping rebound," Kidd said. "For him, it's not just always about shooting, but being able to find the open guy or drive it." Monday night's starters also include point guard Deron Williams, shooting guard Joe Johnson and small forward Alan Anderson. Johnson had missed Friday night's overtime loss to the Philadelphia 76ers due to personal reasons. Paul Pierce, who started in Johnson's absence, will move back to the bench, where he has been effective anchoring the second unit. Pierce is averaging 25.5 points on 81 percent shooting in his last two games. Kidd could have also started Andray Blatche, but likes what the 27-year-old big man brings to the team in a reserve role. Blatche is averaging 11.8 points and 5.9 rebounds on 47.4 percent shooting. On the injury front, guard Jason Terry will play. Terry has missed 15 games due to a knee injury and has not played since Nov. 20 in Charlotte. "Jet will give it a go. We'll see how he does," Kidd said. "We won't roll him out there for 30-something minutes but we'll hopefully keep it manageable, but we'll see how those first couple minutes go and then we'll go from there." Forward Andrei Kirilenko (back) remains out and will miss his 23rd game of the season. Kirilenko is hoping to return in one of the next two home games -- Wednesday or Friday -- prior to the team's road game Saturday night in Indiana.