Brooklyn Nets forward Paul Pierce, who is currently an unrestricted free agent, remains uncertain as to what his future holds. Pierce is currently playing in the World Series of Poker Main Event ($10,000 No Limit Hold 'Em) in Las Vegas. "I don't even know where I'm going," Pierce said Thursday night in a Google Hangout with PokerNews Live when asked where he thinks LeBron James will end up. James announced Friday that he was returning to Cleveland. "I had a great time in Brooklyn. Even though we started off slow, we turned it around. Unfortunately we didn't get to our ultimate goal, but I enjoyed the experience and who knows where I'll be next year." The Nets are currently in negotiations with Pierce's camp, and are hopeful that he'll stay in Brooklyn. Sources told ESPN NewYork.com that the team would like to pay Pierce in the $6-8 million range, while Pierce wants to be paid in the $9-10 million range. Pierce, 36, made $15.3 million last season. The Nets have Pierce's Bird Rights, meaning they can pay him more than any other team. The Los Angeles Clippers could be an attractive destination for Pierce given that he's from Los Angles and won a championship with Clippers coach Doc Rivers in Boston. "Doc has given me a call. Right now, it's free agency so you can talk to teams, so I've talked to Doc," Pierce said. "Right now, I think everybody's waiting to see what ... Melo (Carmelo Anthony) [does] before all the chips fall into place, and then you'll see a lot more guys signing." Nets general manager Billy King confirmed that the Clippers called to try and engage in talks about a sign-and-trade deal that would reunite Pierce and Rivers, but King said such a move "made no sense" for Brooklyn. If Pierce does ultimately decide to leave for the Clippers or another team, the Nets could look to move him in a sign-and-trade deal in order to get some type of compensation. Pierce has said he'd like to play at least a year or two before perhaps deciding to retire. Teams that lose out on James and Anthony in the free-agency sweepstakes could look to Pierce as an alternative.