Chad Ford and Jeff Goodman squared off Monday night in the first head-to-head Twitter Mock Draft. Now that the dust has settled, the guys break down their reasoning for all 30 first-round picks. 1. Cleveland Cavaliers select Andrew Wiggins .@ESPNInsider I'm up 1st. Cavs take Andrew Wiggins. Not what they will do, but what they should do. Too much upside to pass #NBAFrontOffice - Chad Ford (@chadfordinsider) June 24, 2014 The Cavs may be leaning toward Jabari Parker because he's more NBA ready, but Wiggins has a higher upside and actually helps them in an area in which they need help the most -- defense. In five years, Wiggins will seem like a no-brainer here. 2. Milwaukee Bucks select Jabari Parker .@ESPNInsider @chadfordinsider With No. 2 pick, the Milwaukee Bucks select Jabari Parker (who should have gone No. 1). #NBAFrontOffice - Jeff Goodman (@GoodmanESPN) June 24, 2014 He was the no-brainer decision here. Parker can score buckets and would complement Giannis Antetokounmpo. 3. Philadelphia 76ers select Dante Exum .@ESPNInsider The 76ers take Dante Exum & trade the rights to MCW to the Lakers for the No. 7 pick ... #NBAFrontOffice - Chad Ford (@chadfordinsider) June 24, 2014 The Sixers have been huge Exum fans. On pure talent, he may be as good as any player in the draft. Few players have his speed at his size. As a bonus, it allows the Sixers to trade Michael Carter-Williams to the Lakers for the No. 7 pick and get another Top 10 pick. 4. Orlando Magic select Joel Embiid .@ESPNInsider With the No. 4 pick in the NBA Draft, the Orlando Magic select Joel Embiid. I'm rolling the dice on his back/foot/DNA issues. - Jeff Goodman (@GoodmanESPN) June 24, 2014 Have to roll the dice here and just pray that his back, foot and whatever else remains healthy. Either I'll be a goat or a hero, but no one has more upside than the skilled 7-footer. 5. Milwaukee Bucks (via Utah Jazz) select Julius Randle .@chadfordinsider @ESPNInsider I am taking Julius Randle w/ No. 5 pick for Milwaukee Bucks (obtained via trade with Utah). #NBAFrontOffice. - Jeff Goodman (@GoodmanESPN) June 24, 2014 The Bucks need a physical presence up front. Randle has some killer in him, and no I'm not worried about his foot. I dealt Jabari Parker from Milwaukee to Utah for Trey Burke and the No. 5 pick. I love Parker, but the Bucks need more than just him. Now they have a legit point guard in Burke and we also added Julius Randle -- who can be a 15-and-8 guy -- with the fifth pick. This is a win-win for both teams. 6. Boston Celtics select Marcus Smart .@ESPNInsider @chadfordinsider All my trade offers have been spurned. Boston Celtics take Marcus Smart with the No. 6 pick. #NBAFrontOffice - Jeff Goodman (@GoodmanESPN) June 24, 2014 The Celtics could lose Rajon Rondo in a year, and this gives Danny Ainge the ability to deal Rondo and not have to get a point guard in return. 7. Philadelphia 76ers (via Los Angeles Lakers) select Noah Vonleh .@ESPNInsider The 76ers (via Lakers) take Noah Voleh at No. 7. Feeling me now Sixers fans? #NBAFrontOffice - Chad Ford (@chadfordinsider) June 24, 2014 .@chadfordinsider @ESPNInsider Love the Vonleh pick. He has so much "upside." - Jeff Goodman (@GoodmanESPN) June 24, 2014 The Sixers got this pick from the Los Angeles Lakers in the Michael Carter-Williams trade and get the guy they've been looking at closely at No. 3. Vonleh is long, athletic and he can stretch the floor. A perfect complement next to Nerlens Noel. 8. Sacramento Kings select Aaron Gordon .@ESPNInsider @chadfordinsider With No. 8 pick, the Sacramento Kings select Aaron Gordon. He and Boogie Cousins will be a dominant duo. - Jeff Goodman (@GoodmanESPN) June 24, 2014 Few players actually want to play in Sacramento, but Gordon grew up nearby and would be happy with the opportunity. Just imagine the toughness that DeMarcus Cousins and Gordon would give the Kings along the front line. 9. Charlotte Hornets select Nik Stauskas .@ESPNInsider With the 9th pick the Hornets select Nik Stauskas! Let it RAIN!!!!! #NBAFrontOffice - Chad Ford (@chadfordinsider) June 24, 2014 The Hornets may be leaning toward Doug McDermott in real life, but I think Stauskas' ability to shoot off the dribble makes him a better fit. Besides, I still believe in Michael Kidd-Gilchrist. 10. Philadelphia 76ers select Doug McDermott .@ESPNInsider @chadfordinsider This one is easy. Philly needs a shooter. Takes Dougie McBuckets at No. 10. #NBAfrontoffice - Jeff Goodman (@GoodmanESPN) June 24, 2014 Chad had already dealt Michael Carter-Williams for Dante Exum and the No. 7 pick (Noah Vonleh). Philly needs a guy who can space the floor -- and McBuckets is just a flat-out shot-maker. @ESPNNBA To read more about the first ever Twitter Mock Draft between Chad Ford and Jeff Goodman, you must be an Insider. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Chad FordSenior Writer, NBA Insider Follow Archive Senior NBA Writer for ESPN.com ESPN Insider NBA Draft Analyst since 2002 Writes ESPN's NBA Draft Top 100 and Lottery Mock Draft Jeff GoodmanESPN Insider Follow Archive Joined ESPN as a college basketball Insider in June 2013 Previously wrote for CBSSports.com and FOXSports.com