The Charlotte Hornets have announced that Jeff Taylor will not be participating in any team-related activities while the NBA investigates the third-year forward's arrest on domestic assault charges. "We have informed Jeffery Taylor that effective immediately he will not be participating in any team-related activities while the NBA is investigating his conduct in this matter," the team said in a statement. "As an organization, we understand and appreciate the seriousness of this matter, and will assist the NBA and law enforcement in any way we can until this comes to an acceptable resolution. We have spoken with Jeffery and his representatives and they fully understand our position." Said NBA spokesman Tim Frank: "We support the Charlotte Hornets' decision to separate Jeffery Taylor from the team during the investigation." East Lansing Police said in a news release Thursday that the 25-year-old Taylor has been charged with one count of domestic assault, one count of assault and one count of malicious destruction of property. According to the release, police officers responded to an incident at the East Lansing Marriott at University Place about 1 a.m. Thursday. "Jeffrey and his lawyers have determined that it is in Jeffrey's best interest to focus on resolving this matter as expeditiously as possible before returning to the team," NBA Players Association executive director Michele Roberts said. "We accept and support that decision. However, our expectation is that no disciplinary action should or would be taken by the team or the league going forward, prior to objective deliberation and full consideration of the facts in this matter." The Hornets cancelled a media luncheon with coach Steve Clifford scheduled for Friday. Team spokesman Mike Cristaldi said Clifford would instead be spending time gathering facts related to Taylor's arrest. NBA commissioner Adam Silver had said Monday that the league will "take a fresh look" at its domestic violence policies in light of the issues surrounding the NFL. "We learn from other league's experiences. We're studying everything that's been happening in the NFL," Silver said. "We're working with our players' association [and new executive director Michele Roberts]. We've been talking for several weeks, and we're going to take a fresh look at everything we do." The Hornets open the preseason Oct. 8 in Philadelphia, the same day Taylor has a pretrial court date at East Lansing District Court. Ingham County prosecutor Stuart Dunnings announced the date Friday. Jury selection for the case is set for Oct. 14, Dunnings said, adding that Taylor also has the option for a bench trial rather than a jury trial. Taylor, who is not married, is from Norrkoping, Sweden, and resides in Charlotte, North Carolina. It is unclear why he was in Michigan. The prosecutor said the police report will not be released while the incident is under investigation.