HOUSTON -- Texans offensive tackle David Quessenberry has been diagnosed with lymphoma and was placed on the team's non-football injury list Tuesday. "The goal of David's treatment is to cure the disease so he can return to the life that he has worked so hard to earn," a statement from Quessenberry's agents at Rep1 Sports read. "David is extremely positive and determined to win this fight against cancer." Quessenberry not only experienced fatigue and a persistent cough last week, but he also felt like he was going to black out during an OTA practice last week, his agent, Chase Callahan, told ESPN NFL Insider Adam Caplan. After consulting with the training staff, Quessenberry had tests taken that showed he had fluid in his lungs. After further testing, he was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin T Lymphoblastic Lymphoma. Callahan said the second-year pro started chemotherapy shortly after the diagnosis. The 23-year-old Quessenberry took to Twitter on Tuesday to thanks his supporters. Earlier Tuesday, Quessenberry told CSN Houston: "I'm gonna kick the crap outta this thing and come back even stronger! I will win this fight." He is being treated at MD Anderson hospital in Houston. T-cell lymphomas are fairly rare and account for about 15 percent of all non-Hodgkin lymphoma diagnoses. "Our medical community here in Houston is the best in the world," Texans general manager Rick Smith said. "We are extremely confident in the care and treatment David will receive. He is a fighter and a courageous young man, and we look forward to his full and complete recovery. We will continue to support him and his family and look forward to his return to the team." Quessenberry was a sixth-round draft pick in 2013 out of San Jose State. After a promising offseason, he suffered a severe broken foot that landed him on injured reserve for his rookie season. "We want everybody to know, especially David Quessenberry, that we're very much in David Quessenbery's corner," Texans coach Bill O'Brien said. "The one thing that's stood out to me and our coaching staff is what an impressive young man this is. He's a guy that wanted his teammates to know that he was going to fight this thing and he was going to beat it. We're all behind him and we know that he's going to do that. ... We look forward to the day that he beats it and he returns to the Houston Texans."