BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -- A woman charged with killing a fellow Alabama fan after the end of last weekend's Iron Bowl was angry that the victim and others didn't seem upset over the Crimson Tide's loss to archrival Auburn, said the sister of the slain woman. Adrian Laroze Briskey, 28, was charged Monday with murder in the killing of 36-year-old Michelle Shepherd. Briskey, of Birmingham, was released Tuesday on $75,000 bond. She didn't return a message seeking comment. Hoover police Capt. Jim Coker said both Birmingham women were Alabama fans and at the same party for the annual game between intrastate rivals. With no time left on the clock, Auburn returned a missed Crimson Tide field goal more than 100 yards for a 34-28 victory, dashing any hopes of Alabama playing for a third straight national championship. The victim's sister, Neketa Shepherd, said she witnessed the killing and had no doubt it was about football, even though it was unclear to investigators whether the violence was motivated by the game. "That's one of the things we are investigating," Coker said Monday. Neketa Shepherd said Briskey flew into a rage when she saw the sisters and others joking that the Crimson Tide's loss wasn't as bad as if the NBA's Miami Heat had lost a game. "She said we weren't real Alabama fans because it didn't bother us that they lost. And then she started shooting," Shepherd told The Associated Press. Shepherd said she and her sister were invited to the party by a mutual friend who also invited Briskey. About two dozen people were on hand. Shepherd, the mother of three, was shot to death in the parking lot of an apartment complex in the Birmingham suburb of Hoover and the women did not know each other before the party, Coker said. Court records were not available to show whether Briskey has a lawyer. She has only had a couple of speeding tickets in the past, records show. Coker said alcohol might have been involved, but investigators are awaiting the results of toxicology tests to make a determination. Shepherd said Briskey drank multiple shots of liquor during the game and "went crazy" when she heard people joking after Alabama lost. "It was over a football game," said Shepherd. "I'm never going to forget it because she died in my arms."