Once a perennial first-round fantasy selection during his years with the Jazz, Deron Williams has struggled with injury and inconsistency since joining the Nets back in the 2010-11 season. He hit a low point last season, suiting up for 64 games while averaging a mere 14.3 points and 6.1 assists in just 32.2 minutes per game. I guess sometimes you have to hit rock bottom before you climb back up again, right? Williams has returned to fantasy relevance so far in 2014-15, averaging 18.5 points, 6.4 assists, 1.4 steals and 1.6 3-pointers while shooting 46.2 percent from the floor and 89.3 percent from the line after 13 contests. He finally looks healthy, and is taking the lead for a Nets team that lacks offensive firepower. Playing 37.2 minutes per game, Williams should remain productive as long as he can stay healthy. Following his hot start, Williams moves up to No. 31 overall in the top 130 rankings. Who else is on the rise or fall heading into Week 5? Let's take a look. Moving up Nikola Vucevic, who has been an underrated fantasy option over the past few seasons, continues to improve in his fourth professional campaign. After 15 contests, he ranks sixth on our Player Rater with averages of 19.4 points, 12.1 rebounds, 0.7 steals and 1.1 blocks per game to go along with solid percentages. Vucevic's impressive start can be attributed to his career-high 36.3 minutes per game as his per-minute production always suggested that this type of breakout was possible. With ample minutes, Vucevic will continue to be an elite fantasy option at the center position, and he'll be in the running to lead the league in rebounds by season's end. Those who remained patient with Timberwolves rookie Andrew Wiggins are about to be rewarded in a big way. Already dealing with a variety of injuries, the Wolves lost their leading scorer when Kevin Martin broke his wrist on Wednesday night. With Martin down, they'll ask Wiggins to carry much of the offensive workload. It was only one game, but on Saturday night Wiggins posted 29 points (including two 3-pointers) and four steals in 41 minutes. Is this a sign of things to come? I think so, and Wiggins needs to be owned in all fantasy formats at the moment given the Wolves' injury issues. I put Arron Afflalo on notice a few weeks ago, suggesting that he'd be on the chopping block in fantasy leagues if he didn't turn things around after a slow start. Afflalo responded by averaging 18.0 points and 2.8 3-pointers over his past five games. Afflalo's fantasy value is heavily tied to his scoring and 3-point shooting, so it's great to see him starting to get comfortable in Brian Shaw's offense. Bradley Beal showed no signs of rust in his return from a wrist injury, putting up averages of 16.7 points, 4.7 assists, 1.3 steals and 1.7 3-poitners over his first three games. Beal can be a dynamic fantasy option when healthy, and he'll have a big season alongside John Wall in the Wizards backcourt as long as he can stay on the floor. Moving down Here we go again with Dwyane Wade. After playing in just 54 games last season due to multiple injuries, Wade has missed the Heat's last six contests due to a hamstring injury. It's a shame too, because he has been terrific when on the court this season, averaging 19.8 points, 6.4 assists and 1.3 steals per game. Unfortunately, Wade will continue to be an injury risk all season. Mario Chalmers has been the primary beneficiary in Wade's absence, going for 19.4 points, 6.2 assists, 1.6 steals and 1.2 3-pointers over his past five games. News that Nene left Saturday's game with plantar fasciitis in his right foot is awfully concerning given the big man's history with this particular injury. Nene was plagued by the same ailment in his left foot during the 2012-13 season, and has missed a ton of time due to injury over the past few seasons. He should remain on fantasy rosters for the moment, but owners should monitor his injury situation closely over the next few weeks. Tony Wroten's value has plummeted with the return of Michael Carter-Williams, but that doesn't mean he should be dropped in fantasy leagues just yet. The third-year guard is still averaging 13.2 points, 5.2 assists, 1.0 steals and 0.6 3-pointers over his past give games. And more importantly, he's still seeing 30-plus minutes per night. Wroten's upside is limited with MCW healthy, but he will remain a quality low-end fantasy option for points, assists, steals and 3-pointers going forward. Given Jason Kidd's rotations, it's hard to rely on anyone outside of Brandon Knight in Milwaukee. Knight is the only player on the roster averaging more than 30 minutes per game, and Kidd's scheme puts Larry Sanders on the chopping block in many fantasy leagues. Sanders is averaging just 6.1 points and 6.8 rebounds but has managed to chip in 1.2 steals and 1.7 blocks despite seeing only 21.5 minutes per game. He's probably still worth a roster spot given his per-minute production on the defensive end, but it's hard to get too excited about anyone who's barely earning 20 minutes per game.