EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -- A day after playing his best game in a long time, Brooklyn Nets point guard Deron Williams hopes his injury woes are in the past. Williams posted 29 points and six assists in 33 minutes in Friday night's 110-99 victory over the New York Knicks at Barclays Center. He was able to make explosive moves after undergoing offseason surgery to clean out both of his ankles, moves he wasn't able to make in 2013-14. "I was never healthy last year, the whole year," Williams said Saturday. "There was never a point last year where I was healthy. I just don't like talking to y'all about my health. That's why I don't want to talk to you all now about my health. I would like to put my health behind me and move on to bigger and better things." After struggling to sustain his health the past two seasons, Williams is averaging 19.8 points and 7.0 assists on 47.3 percent shooting in 37.6 minutes through the first five games of the 2014-15 campaign. "I don't want a pity party or anyone to feel sorry for me, that's not what it's about," Williams said. "Nobody will know what I went through the last few years -- physically, mentally, it was definitely a strain. "But it makes you stronger, it makes you immune to people talking bad about you. I'm excited about this year and I'm trying to put those last two years behind me. They weren't how I wanted to start my time in Brooklyn. But it is what it is, and now I can move forward." Williams looked like the best player on the court Friday night. And that court included Carmelo Anthony, who is currently struggling with his shot while trying to adjust to the Knicks' new triangle offense. "I'm getting that confidence back where I step on the court and I feel like people can't guard me," Williams said. "Like I said, I had some explosive moves where I haven't been able to do that in a long time, and I could tell, even watching film, that I'm a lot quicker out there." The Knicks put Iman Shumpert, who Williams called a "great defender," on the three-time All-Star point guard, and Williams was able to get to the rim at will against Shumpert. "This is the NBA, but before my injuries, I didn't feel like anybody could stop me 1-on-1," Williams said, noting that guys like Bruce Bowen and Ron Artest have guarded him in the past. "I just feel like if you put one person on me, it's gonna be hard to stop me, and I'm getting back to that."