CHICAGO -- Derrick Rose sustained a "minor" right hamstring injury during the fourth quarter of Monday night's 96-81 win over the Cleveland Cavaliers, according to Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau. Rose did not require an MRI on the hamstring Tuesday, according to a source familiar with the situation. "It's just a minor sprain," Rose said after the game. "Nothing serious. Hopefully I'll be better in a couple of days, but it's nothing big at all." Rose injured the hamstring on a drive to the rim, converting a layup with just less than four minutes to play. He doesn't remember exactly when the injury occurred but was pulled out of the game by Thibodeau and replaced by Kirk Hinrich. Rose went toward the end of the bench and was checked by assistant trainer Jeff Tanaka. "I really don't know," Rose said of when exactly the injury occurred. "I remember coming down the court. Really didn't feel it until after I came down and went back to the bench and [the training staff] was asking me about it. Then coming back in, it was a play where somebody knocked the ball out of bounds or something like that, and they said I wasn't moving good enough to be out on the court so they came and subbed me out." Rose, who missed the past year and a half while recovering from reconstructive left knee surgery, acknowledged that the hamstring injury was "irritating." "It had to be on the drive, but stuff happens," Rose said. "I just got to play through it and get back healthy. I don't know if it was before [the drive] or after. I don't know if it was when I was running down the court or right when I took off. I really don't know; I was too caught up in the play." Thibodeau was being cautious about Rose's status. "It looks like a minor right hamstring," Thibodeau said. "We called the timeout just to get him out. He tweaked it. When he gets re-evaluated, we'll have more information. It appears to be minor." Rose believes he will be able to play Friday night against the Toronto Raptors. "I should be," he said. "It's nothing big at all. I'm still able to walk around, move around the way I want to. Just a little sore." Rose said he knew right away it was a hamstring injury. He said this is the first time he has had a hamstring injury, but he noted during his rehab that he was having discomfort in his hamstrings last season. Rose has started stretching more during games than in years past. "I think I've been in the training room long enough," Rose joked. "Around trainers long enough to really know everything about my body." "I feel bad for him," Bulls forward Carlos Boozer said. "He works his butt off every day. Whether it's rehab, lifting, shooting, whatever it is, you guys see him out there. He puts the time in, so I feel bad for him, but hopefully whatever he's got going on right now isn't that bad, we hope the severity of it isn't that bad." Rose tried to put a positive spin on his recent injury as he got ready to leave the locker room. "[I'm] just getting them all out of the way early," he said.