With a fadeaway jumper at the 11:46-mark of the first quarter in his team's game against the Utah Jazz, Dallas Mavericks forward Dirk Nowitzki officially moved past Hall of Famer and Boston Celtics legend John Havlicek. Nowitzki moved into a tie with Havlicek for 12th place with a 15-foot jumper at the 8:29 mark of the fourth quarter in the team's 108-85 loss to the Golden State Warriors Tuesday night. He eventually finished with 31 points and moved into sole possession of the No. 12 spot on the all-time scoring list in the Mavericks' 108-101 win over the Jazz. Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle began his NBA career in Boston and got to know Havlicek well. He can say without hesitancy that "Hondo" respects Nowitzki. Recently, Carlisle said, "One thing I can tell you for sure is John Havlicek is a huge fan of Dirk Nowitzki and what he's done in his career, not only individually, but from a team standpoint and a competitive standpoint and wanting to take on the responsibility of winning and losing. "John was the guy for them for a lot of years. So he understands what that's all about." In addition to Havlicek, Nowitzki has moved past Jerry West, Reggie Miller, Kevin Garnett and Alex English on the all-time scoring list this season. The next name on the list for Nowitzki is Dominique Wilkins at 26,668 career points. Only two other players born outside of the United States have more career points than the 7-footer from Germany: Hakeem Olajuwon (26,946, born in Nigeria) and Dominique Wilkins (26,668, born in France). Kobe Bryant (31,700) is the only active player with more career points than Nowitzki. Nowitzki and Bryant are the only two players in the top 12 to score all of their points with the same team. Interestingly enough, Nowitzki just passed the only other member of the top 15 who played their entire career with one team in Havlieck. While averaging 21.3 points per game, if Nowitzki can stay healthy and maintain his current pace, he will become one of the top 10 scorers in NBA history as the season comes to a close. Oscar Robertson ranks 10th overall at 26,710 career points.