The official deadline for college basketball players to declare for the June 26 NBA draft came and went Sunday night. There were no-brainers: Andrew Wiggins, Jabari Parker, Joel Embiid and Julius Randle going to the NBA. And there were easy decisions: Branden Dawson, Jordan Mickey and Ron Baker returning to school for another go-round. The most important for college basketball in 2014-15 may have been the somewhat surprising return of Willie Cauley-Stein and the Harrison twins to Lexington. But there were other decisions that fall more into a gray area. Below, we break down some of those decisions and whether they were the right call to make -- or ill-advised moves at this particular time. Good timing Mitch McGary, Michigan -- What choice did he really have at the end of the day? It would have been difficult enough to justify returning to school and risk another setback with a nagging back issues, but then after he was hit with a one-year suspension by the NCAA for flunking a drug test in March, it was as much of a no-brainer as any player faced -- except for maybe Wiggins. McGary had to go, even though the 6-foot-10 big man will likely be a second-rounder. Tyler Ennis, Syracuse -- No one had the Canadian point guard on the board as a potential first-round pick heading into his freshman campaign. In fact, most pegged the pure floor leader as a four-year player. You need to take advantage while you can, and while Ennis could have benefited from another season in college, he's a lock first-rounder and a potential lottery pick. Go make some money, Tyler -- and don't look back. To read Jeff Goodman's review of the NBA draft decisions of some of college basketball's best, sign up for Insider today. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Jeff GoodmanESPN Insider Follow Archive Joined ESPN as a college basketball Insider in June 2013 Previously wrote for CBSSports.com and FOXSports.com