As the midpoint of the 2013-14 NBA season approaches, fantasy owners should already have a good feel for their categorical strengths and weaknesses, which typically results in an active trading period. The top 130 rankings can help identify trade targets, but keep in mind that these rankings are based on overall value, and owners should always consider their own categorical needs when engaging in trade discussions. With that in mind, let's take a look at some of the top storylines and the biggest movers in the ranks over the past week: Rajon Rondo made his much-awaited season debut on Friday, posting eight points, four assists and two steals in just 19 minutes against the Lakers. He followed that up on Sunday with six points, six rebounds, four assists and a steal in 21 minutes in Orlando. Rondo will be an immediate help in terms of assists and steals, but given the struggles of players returning from similar ACL injuries, fantasy owners should remain patient and expect some rust for Rondo in the early weeks of his return. This will be particularly true since he is the kind of player who relies heavily on his speed and quickness. His owners should remain patient as Rondo works his way back into game shape. Avery Bradley's value, by the way, should remain solid even with Rondo back in the lineup. Marc Gasol struggled in his first two games back since missing 23 games with a knee injury, but bounced back on Friday with 16 points, 3 rebounds, 2 steals and 4 blocks in 31 minutes against the Kings. It might take Gasol a week or two to get back into game shape, but he should provide top-30 value as soon as he's back to full strength. He's averaging just 9.3 points and 4.0 rebounds in three games since his return, so you might be able to catch an impatient owner off guard with a buy-low deal. Al Jefferson is getting after it in recent action, averaging 26.2 points, 11.4 rebounds, 1.4 steals and 1.0 blocks per contests over his past five games. The only thing holding Jefferson back from top-25 value this season has been his somewhat disappointing percentages (47.4 percent from the floor and 67.3 percent from the line). The Bobcats will continue to heavily rely on Jefferson on the offensive end with Kemba Walker expected to miss some time due to an ankle injury. Fantasy owners will also want to grab Ramon Sessions as a short-term, stop-gap solution while Walker mends. Dwyane Wade has played extremely well when healthy this season, but his sore knees appear to be affecting his play as of late. He's missed two of the Heat's past five games, and has scored in single digits in each of his past two games. Averaging 18.9 points, 4.8 rebounds, 4.7 assists and 1.8 steals on the season, Wade has returned great value for his fantasy owners to date, but it might be time to start testing the trade market after he has a few good games. It would not be surprising if the Heat start to limit Wade's minutes in order to keep him fresh for their playoff run; as a result, Wade owners may want to temper their expectations for the second half of the season. I have my doubts about Kendall Marshall's ability to continue his stellar play once the Lakers' key players are healthy, but he's definitely separated himself from Jordan Farmar and Steve Blake as Steve Nash's replacement by averaging 13.0 points, 12.8 assists and 2.6 3-pointers over his past five games. Given Nash's tentative status the rest of the way, Marshall just might have some long-term staying power in this Lakers lineup. Roy Hibbert started the season on fire, but has slowed in recent action with just 10.9 points, 6.2 rebounds and 2.1 blocks while shooting just 37.9 percent from the floor in nine games this month. Hibbert goes through these stretches of inefficient play from time to time, and it might be a good idea to target him in a buy-low deal; at the very worst, he'll continue to provide value as one of the best shot-blockers in the league. Tobias Harris is really putting together a nice stretch of games, rewarding those who held onto him by posting averages of 18.0 points and 9.2 rebounds per game over his past five. It is going to be very interesting to see who can retain their value once the Magic are at full strength, as the team has only played a handful of games with Jameer Nelson, Victor Oladipo, Aaron Afflalo, Tobias Harris, Glen Davis and Nikola Vucevic on the court at the same time. I have to think that Davis might be the odd man out in terms of fantasy value once the Magic are at 100 percent. Terrence Jones has absolutely been on fire over his past five games, averaging 21.6 points, 12.2 rebounds, 1.2 steals and 3.0 blocks. Though Jones has been up and down this season, he has remained in the top 130 rankings. His inconsistent ways will almost certainly surface again this season, so his owners will have to ride out the roller coaster or look for sell-high deals after his recent offensive outburst. John Henson might be coming off the bench since returning from an ankle injury, but that won't stop him from providing rebounds and steals in bulk. The Bucks have been a tricky team for fantasy purposes, but Henson should be owned in all leagues considering he's averaged 11.5 points, 11.0 rebounds and 2.0 blocks over his past five games. Amir Johnson had a nice run immediately after the Rudy Gay trade, but has struggled mightily since with just 9.3 points, 5.7 rebounds and 1.7 blocks in nine games this month. Given his upside, I still think it's worth holding onto Johnson to see if he can work his way out of this slump. At the very least, he should continue to provide blocks while his owners ride out the inconsistent production.