Kirby Lee/USA TODAY SportsCan Chris Paul and the Clippers win two of the next three games to upset the Thunder? A week into the NBA's conference semifinals, it's already clear the second round won't be able to match the drama the first round of this season's playoffs provided. Depending on the results of Monday's Game 4 between the Brooklyn Nets and Miami Heat, it's possible that the team with home-court advantage will lead three of the four series through four games, leaving the Los Angeles Clippers and Oklahoma City Thunder (tied 2-2 after an improbable comeback by the Clippers in Sunday's Game 4) as our best hope of a seven-game series. Let's take a look at where each series stands, using past NBA best-of-seven results from WhoWins.com to estimate the favorite's chance of winning. San Antonio Spurs vs. Portland Trail Blazers Spurs' chances of winning: 100 percent No team in NBA history has ever come back from a 3-0 deficit. In fact, across the three major American pro sports that use the best-of-seven format, just five teams have done so (most recently this season's L.A. Kings) in 319 attempts (1.6 percent). Eventually, an NBA team is bound to pull off the unprecedented comeback. At Sunday's light workout, the Blazers were willing to embrace the mentality that they should be the ones to do it. "It's not easy by any stretch of the imagination," guard Wesley Matthews said. "We know the stats, we know it's never happened before, but sports are unpredictable. As soon as the ball tips up, there's a 50-50 chance of winning that game." To read about the favorite's win likelihood for each conference semifinal series, become an ESPN Insider. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Kevin Pelton Follow Archive Co-author, Pro Basketball Prospectus series Formerly a consultant with the Indiana Pacers Developed WARP rating and SCHOENE system