Bill Baptist/NBAE/Getty ImagesThough Dwight Howard posted 27 points and 15 rebounds in Game 1, he struggled at times. In the aftermath of Houston's overtime loss in Game 1 Sunday against the Portland Trail Blazers, a lot of the conversation about why the Rockets came up short revolved around Dwight Howard, as TNT NBA analyst Shaquille O'Neal made his usual stump speech about Howard coming up short in the box score as an elite big man. Howard, in turn, reiterated his desire to be more aggressive demanding the ball, leading to a national debate about whether post-ups are an efficient play call and why O'Neal hates Howard so much. I broke down Game 1 to separate reasons from excuses, looking for possible adjustments we might see for Game 2. Here's what I found: A word about Shaq Without a doubt, there is an element to O'Neal's analysis that is based in entertainment: He knows his comments serve as a lightning rod for attention and get viewers riled up (either denouncing him as a "hater" or agreeing with him in tearing down Howard). The other, less acknowledged, angle is that O'Neal's harsh criticism comes from about 20 years ago, when he was the big who caught flack for underachieving and not being "as good as legends that came before him." For O'Neal, there is a very real rite of passage at work when he puts down Howard, in much the same way that he was put down as "not as good as Kareem Abdul-Jabbar," and Kareem was "not as good as Wilt Chamberlain" and Wilt was "not as good as Bill Russell." To read Amin Elhassan's full examination of whether Shaq's claims about Howard's Game 1 flaws have merit, become an ESPN Insider. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Amin Elhassan Follow Archive Video coordinator, college scout, Phoenix Suns Assistant director of basketball operations, Phoenix Suns MBA from Arizona State University