Rarely do we see a trade with fantasy impact this early in the season, but Sunday night the Raptors sent Rudy Gay, Quincy Acy and Aaron Gray to the Kings in exchange for Greivis Vasquez, John Salmons, Patrick Patterson and Chuck Hayes in a deal that figures to have modest fantasy implications. Once the trade is finalized on Monday, the Kings will likely send out a starting lineup of Isaiah Thomas, Ben McLemore, Gay, Jason Thompson and DeMarcus Cousins, with Marcus Thornton and Derrick Williams as key contributors off the bench. The obvious winner in the deal is Thomas, who was already averaging 17.8 points, 4.9 assists, 1.4 steals and 1.5 3-pointers despite being stuck in a time-share and playing just 27.7 minutes per game. Some may argue that Thomas is better suited to come off the bench, but there's no denying that this deal should give him a big boost in fantasy leagues because he'll finally have consistent minutes to work with. I'd like to say that McLemore will see a slight increase in value, but Gay is such a high-volume shooter that it may offset any value that McLemore would have added with the departure of Vasquez and Salmons. That said, McLemore has played well in recent action, averaging 13.4 points, 4.4 rebounds, 1.8 steals and 1.6 3-pointers over his past five games. He hasn't been added to the Top 130 just yet, but he's certainly on the bubble. As for Gay, he's being downgraded slightly, dropping from 34th to 41st. Perhaps he'll be able to improve his dismal 38.8 percent shooting from the floor with Cousins and Thomas creating open spaces, but any improvement will likely be offset by fewer shot attempts and rebounding opportunities. Gay's departure will definitely open up some opportunities in Toronto, although it's not entirely clear who the primary beneficiary will be. One thing is certain: Someone will have to replace his 35.5 minutes and 18.6 shot attempts per game. DeMar DeRozan and Kyle Lowry have been playing lights-out and should continue to do so despite the addition of Vasquez to the backcourt. As a result, both are moving up in the ranks. Jonas Valanciunas has been a huge disappointment to date, but this just might be the break his owners were looking for; he figures to be much more involved in the offense after the trade. Averaging just 9.3 points, 7.7 rebounds and 1.0 blocks in 27.3 minutes on the season, Valanciunas should see his minutes and shot attempts jump with Gay out of town. Fantasy owners are going to have to wait and see who among Terrence Ross, Amir Johnson, Tyler Hansbrough, Patterson, Landry Fields and Steve Novak steps up his game in Gay's absence. Johnson and Ross are my favorite speculative adds at the moment because of their upside, but be aware that head coach Dwane Casey might tinker with his lineup until he finds the right match in the weeks following the trade. News and notes Kyrie Irving's zero-point effort Friday in Atlanta gave fantasy owners an incredible opportunity to buy low on the slumping star. After averaging 22.5 points, 5.9 assists, 1.5 steals and 1.8 3-pointers while shooting 45.2 percent from the floor and 85.5 percent from the line in 2012-13, Kyrie is putting up just 19.7 points, 5.8 assists, 0.9 steals and 1.4 3-poitners while shooting a dismal 39.4 percent from the floor and 78.4 percent from the line this season. However, Irving is a much better player than he's shown so far this year, and his current owners are probably frustrated enough to give him up at less than market price. If Jimmy Butler was dropped in your league (and he probably was at 39.4 percent owned in ESPN.com leagues), now is the time to scoop him up from the waiver wire. Close to returning from a turf-toe injury, Butler is going to do big things in Chicago with Derrick Rose on the shelf for the rest of the season. Remember, Butler was fantastic last season in the playoffs without Rose, averaging 13.3 points, 5.2 rebounds, 1.3 steals and 1.3 3-pointers. I remain cautiously optimistic about Brandon Knight's recent solid play. After struggling with injury and inconsistent play to start the season, Knight has averaged 15.4 points, 5.2 rebounds, 5.2 assists, 1.2 steals and 2.0 3-pointers over his past five games. Knight made my preseason "Love list," so I'm definitely a believer. He's a quality waiver-wire addition if he's still available in your league. It took them a few weeks to settle in, but the Boston Celtics are finally starting to offer some quality fantasy value. Take a look at the numbers from a handful of Boston players over their past five contests: • Jeff Green -- 19.6 points, 4.2 rebounds, 1.8 steals • Jordan Crawford -- 19.8 points, 4.6 rebounds, 7.0 assists, 2.8 3-pointers • Avery Bradley -- 15.2 points, 4.8 rebounds, 0.8 steals, 2.0 3-pointers • Jared Sullinger -- 14.8 points, 6.2 rebounds, 0.8 steals, 1.4 3-pointers • Brandon Bass -- 12.8 points, 8.0 rebounds, 1.0 steals and 1.6 blocks It can be argued that all five of these guys should be owned in fantasy leagues at the moment, at least until Rajon Rondo returns to action. Trey Burke may not be shooting well from the floor (37.2 percent), but he's putting up some nice numbers with 16.0 points, 4.2 rebounds, 5.2 assists, 1.2 steals and 2.2 3-pointers over his past five contests. Burke is definitely going to be a drain on your field goal percentage, but he'll also remain an above-average fantasy point guard with upside, as long as he can stay healthy.