Is it too early to be concerned about Kevin Love's role in the Cleveland offense? We expected his numbers to take a hit coming into the season, but I don't think anyone expected him to be shooting 37.7 percent on just 13.3 attempts per game after eight contests. To be fair, Love won't continue to shoot so poorly from the floor, and his numbers aren't all that bad at 17.1 points, 10.3 rebounds and 2.4 3-pointers per game. That said, we didn't mind Love's lack of defensive stats in the past because he dominated points, rebounds, 3-pointers and the percentages, but how valuable is he now that LeBron James and Kyrie Irving are eating up his shot attempts and rebounding opportunities? For the moment, I have Love at No. 18 in my top 130 rankings, anticipating that he will improve his shooting percentages as he gets more comfortable in the offense. There's definitely some buy-low value to be had here, but those looking to invest in Love should expect him to return late-second-round value instead of the first-round value we've become accustomed to. Let's take a look at who else of note is moving up or down in this week's rankings update (full rankings can be found in the table following the analysis). Moving up Gordon Hayward has connected on 50 of 56 free throw attempts while averaging a versatile 19.2 points, 5.5 rebounds, 4.8 assists, 1.3 steals and 1.7 3-pointers after his first 11 games. Those numbers are good enough to rank him ninth on our Player Rater on a per-game basis. Hayward has the ball in his hands a lot in Quin Snyder's offense, and his owners should think twice about selling high on his early start. Hayward probably won't be able to maintain his 48.3 percent shooting from the floor, but he certainly will continue to be a dynamic, well-rounded fantasy producer the rest of the way. He moves up 11 spots to No. 25 overall in the top 130 rankings this week. Fantasy owners were happy to see Michael Carter-Williams return to action this week for the Sixers. MCW, like Hayward, brings some serious statistical diversity after posting 16.7 points, 6.2 rebounds, 6.3 assists, 1.9 steals and 0.8 3-pointers per game as a rookie last season. He should put up big numbers for the offensively challenged Sixers and would be ranked much higher if it weren't for his efficiency issues: He shot just 40.5 percent from the floor and 70.3 percent from the line last season. Victor Oladipo made his much-anticipated debut this week, posting 15.5 points, 5.0 rebounds and 4.5 assists in two games for the Magic. Oladipo, like Carter-Williams, is a versatile fantasy option who will provide plenty of points, rebounds, assists and steals but may struggle with his efficiency from the floor. With Oladipo back in action and Evan Fournier playing well, rookie Elfrid Payton has been relegated to a bench role for the time being. Payton can safely be dropped for now, but don't be surprised if he has value as an assist and steals specialist later in the season. Sticking in Orlando, Tobias Harris is skyrocketing up the rankings after posting 17.9 points, 8.5 boards, 0.9 steals and 0.8 3-pointers per game with solid percentages through 11 contests. We loved Harris' multicategory potential last season, but he struggled through a disappointing 2013-14 campaign due to multiple nagging injuries. Now operating at 100 percent, Harris appears primed for a breakout season. Moving down After shooting 47.2 percent from the floor and 37.0 percent from downtown last season in Houston, Chandler Parsons is shooting just 40.0 percent from the floor and 32.7 percent from behind the arc after 10 games in Dallas. The good news for Parsons owners is that he's still getting 12.5 shot attempts (including 4.9 3-point attempts) despite seeing just 31.1 minutes per game. So while Parsons is falling in the rankings, he remains a quality buy-low option, as he will undoubtedly improve his efficiency as the season progresses. I'm glad I avoided Josh Smith in fantasy drafts this season, especially after seeing him shoot 36.5 percent from the floor and 47.6 percent from the line through 10 games to start the season. Smith has been pretty solid everywhere else -- averaging 13.8 points, 7.9 boards, 3.7 assists, 1.0 steals and 1.7 blocks per game -- but it's hard to stomach the percentages when he's taking 15.6 shot attempts from the floor and 4.2 attempts from the line per game. Is anyone else worried about David Lee given how well Draymond Green has played in his absence? Lee, who is nursing a hamstring injury, has seen his minutes and production decline slightly in three consecutive seasons, and the Warriors are a healthy 7-2 with him sidelined to start the campaign. With Green playing so well, the Warriors can afford to ease Lee back into the lineup at their leisure. Don't be surprised if he finishes the season playing around 30 minutes per game or if he's a 16-point, nine-rebound guy this season instead of the 18-and-10 player he's been in years past. I was fairly high on Sixers rookie Nerlens Noel entering the season, but it is clear that he has a lot of work to do offensively before we can rely on him as anything more than a defensive specialist. Averaging 7.0 points, 5.9 rebounds, 1.6 steals and 1.6 blocks while shooting just 42.3 percent from the floor and 33.3 percent from the line, Noel sticks in the top 130 rankings this week if only for his contributions on the defensive end.