Juan O'Campo/NBAE/Getty ImagesUnder new coach Steve Kerr, Klay Thompson's WARP has jumped to No. 33 in the NBA. We're still a couple of weeks away from the point when we can stop prefacing every observation we make on the 2014-15 season with "in a very small sample size," a phrase that is as obligatory as it is non-poetic. It's early. You get it. Yet there are things in the NBA that already are emerging as compelling storylines, many of which no one really anticipated during the season preview part of the league calendar. Which of these surprising narratives can we believe? The Warriors' surprising imbalance With an average scoring margin in double-digits, Golden State makes the short list of the NBA's best pre-Thanksgiving teams. The Warriors have been doing it with the league's best defense which in itself is no great surprise. Golden State ranked third in defensive rating last season, yet has managed to slice off another 9.4 points per 100 possessions from their opponents' scoring ledger. They rank third in steal rate, third in block rate, third in defensive effective field goal percentage and first in forcing turnovers. The turnover rate is a giant leap from last season's No. 17 finish, and offsets a decline on the defensive glass. There has been a shift in philosophy from Mark Jackson to first-year coach Steve Kerr. The Warriors are playing much faster than any other team in the league, and the uptick in defensive pressure plays into that. Golden State leads the league in fast-break points per game, and is third in points off turnovers. Yet one thing has remained consistent from Jackson's tenure: The league's best shooting team ranks much lower in offensive efficiency than you'd think. In fact, the Warriors have slid from 12th to 17th on the offensive end. You can't blame Golden State's backcourt. To read Bradford Doolittle's full story on surprising early-season starts in the NBA, sign up for Insider today. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Bradford Doolittle Follow Archive Sports reporter, Kansas City Star, 2002-09 Writer, Baseball, Baseball Prospectus Co-author, Pro Basketball Prospectus Member, Baseball Writers Association of America Member, Professional Basketball Writers Association