Earlier in their first-round Eastern Conference playoff series with the Brooklyn Nets, the Toronto Raptors were the team complaining about the officiating. Now it's the Nets, just one loss from elimination, who would like more calls to go their way heading into Game 6 on Friday night at Barclays Center. Nets coach Jason Kidd made an emphasis of telling reporters that during a Thursday conference call. Specifically, Kidd, unprompted, mentioned that guard Joe Johnson took 23 shots in Game 5 and got only one free throw, something he called "mind-boggling." "If flopping is the way to go, then we have to maybe play that game," Kidd said later. "But Joe is a strong individual and unfortunately, he doesn't flop. He plays and he doesn't complain. But that's why we have officials, for them to make calls." Toronto guards Kyle Lowry and DeMar DeRozan got to the free throw line a combined 23 times in Game 5. Also, when discussing Brooklyn's final possession of Game 5, Kidd mentioned that he felt guard Shaun Livingston was fouled "right in front of [referee] Tom Washington and no call was made." Livingston appeared to be fouled by DeRozan as he went for a rebound following center Andray Blatche's missed free throw. Blatche ended up throwing an errant pass to point guard Deron Williams on the play, which led to a backcourt violation. The Nets lost Game 5, 115-113. Kidd did say the NBA has the "the best referees in professional sports" and that missed calls happen. The Raptors were upset about the fourth-quarter foul disparity (6-1) in Game 1 and then a late foul and technical assessed to guard Greivis Vasquez late in Game 3. Toronto leads the series 3-2, after narrowly avoiding a Game 5 collapse. The Nets erased a 26-point deficit before Lowry hit the go-ahead 3-pointer. At practice Thursday, Lowry said the Raptors lacked discipline in the fourth quarter. "You have to be disciplined, no matter how big the lead, how big the deficit is," he said. "Last night, we lost our discipline. And we watched the film, and in the fourth quarter it looked terrible. But it's a learning tool, and it won't happen to us again, I'm sure of it." Despite a chance to close out the Nets on Friday, Raptors coach Dwane Casey said the focus of his team is not on ending the series but rather on fixing mistakes. "Going into the next game we want to close out the [series], but it's not the end-all," he said. "What I don't want to do is put pressure on ourselves to do that. We want to go in with the mindset of closing out; but again, it's not the end-all. We gotta worry about fixing things, the mistakes we made."