NEW YORK -- Brooklyn Nets coach Jason Kidd does not think it will be difficult to move forward now that assistant Lawrence Frank will no longer be at practices and sitting next to him on the bench during games. "He's working, he's giving his reports," Kidd said a day after he "reassigned" Frank to a reduced role. "Do I miss him? No. He's doing his job." Asked whether it was difficult to reassign Frank, Kidd said, "L's still working, so there's no disappointment. We move on." Asked what Frank's daily reports entail, Kidd responded, "Whatever you would like to write." Asked again, Kidd responded, "A report. About the game." So Frank will watch the games? "Yeah," Kidd responded. Multiple league sources told ESPN.com that there was "friction" and a "difference of philosophies" between Kidd and Frank since the beginning of the season. And several team sources said Nets players side with Kidd, respect the first-year coach and would prefer to hear one voice. Frank is now seeking a buyout from the Nets, according to a report by the New York Daily News. "To me, it's always been one voice," guard Jason Terry said Wednesday. "This is Kidd's team. He's the coach. We love Coach Frank and what he brought to the table, but obviously J, they had their differences, so we're riding with Coach Kidd." Kidd was asked if more changes might be coming given the team's 5-13 start. The Nets have lost 11 of their last 14 games. "That's part of the job. You have to accept it," Kidd said. "There are no excuses. You have to try and win and that's the bottom line, and so whatever any owner decides to do, that's his decision. "And so [we have to get] guys ready to play, no matter who it is, injuries or no injuries. You have to have guys ready to play." The Nets rank second to last in the league in defensive efficiency, giving up an average of 106.5 points per 100 possessions. Frank had been the team's defensive coordinator. Asked what his defensive philosophy is, Kidd said, "To stop them. To rebound the ball. "I think that when you look at it, communication is the first start to anything offensively and defensively," he said. "So with some new pieces, with injuries, there's always a lag time. So right now they're doing great things; it's just the small things in the sense of just finishing the play, could be as simple as getting the rebound, and that's what we have to work on."