Johnny Manziel went from hanging out with the Cleveland Browns to hanging with the Biebs. Cleveland's rookie quarterback, whose social life has overshadowed his NFL arrival, retweeted a tweet from Justin Bieber that included a link to a photo of "selfie" that included Manziel, boxing champion Floyd Mayweather, R&B singer Tyrese and the infamous pop star. Manziel promised last week he wouldn't tone down his well-documented weekend living despite advice from Hall of Famers Emmitt Smith, Joe Montana and Warren Moon. The 22-year-old not only kept his word but seemed to flaunt his celebrity by retweeting the photo. TMZ reported that the Beverly Hills police department was called to Bieber's residence due to complaints over loud music. Manziel is free from football for the next few weeks. The Browns open training camp July 26, when Manziel will resume his competition with Brian Hoyer for the starting job. Manziel spent last week attending the NFL's rookie symposium with Cleveland's other first-year players. On Friday, Manziel addressed the clamor caused by his social life -- he has been filmed spraying champagne on partygoers in Las Vegas, photographed floating on an inflatable swan raft drinking champagne and seen in a video talking on a fake money phone. Manziel defended his right to party. "I'm not going to change who I am for anybody," he said. "I'm growing up and continuing to learn from my mistakes and trying not to make the same ones over and over again, but am I going to live in a shell or am I just going to hide from everybody and not do anything? I don't think that's the way I should live my life and I'm not going to do it. "I'm here. I'm very committed to football. I'm committed to my job, but on the weekends, I'm going to enjoy my time off." After attending the three-day symposium, Manziel visited the Pro Football Hall of Fame on Saturday and spent Sunday in Cleveland filming a TV commercial. But by Monday, he was back in the limelight. Browns coach Mike Pettine has said he won't speak to Manziel -- or any of his other players -- about their off-the-field affairs unless they get involved in criminal activities or it affects their jobs.