CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- Charlotte Hornets point guard Kemba Walker suffered a contusion on his left knee during Monday night's NBA preseason game against the Orlando Magic. Walker, playing in the final year of his rookie contract with the Hornets, was injured early in the third quarter after a collision with Magic guard Elfrid Payton on a drive to the basket. "I just bumped knees with Payton," Walker said after Monday's game. "I'm all right, though. A little sore, but I'll be all right." With 10 minutes remaining in the third quarter, Walker had come up with his own rebound on a missed 3-pointer, and was driving for a layup when he collided with Payton and suddenly pulled up. Walker walked slowly along the baseline as play moved to the other end of the court before Charlotte called timeout. A minute later, Walker was taken to the locker room. He did not return for Monday's game, finishing with 11 points, six rebounds and five assists. Without Walker, the Magic were able to rally, turning a 61-52 Hornets lead into a 78-73 Orlando lead at the end of the quarter. Charlotte went on to beat the Magic 99-97, rallying from a five-point deficit in the fourth quarter. Walker, the ninth pick in the 2011 NBA Draft, was coming off a career-best season for the Hornets, which advanced to the NBA Playoffs for the first time since 2010. He averaged 17.7 points, 6.1 assists and 4.2 rebounds, all career highs. Charlotte coach Steve Clifford said Walker's status for Charlotte's next game -- on Wednesday morning at home against the Detroit Pistons -- is undetermined. "I think he's OK," Clifford said. "He's got one spot where it's a little bit sore, but I think everything's going to be fine. It'll just depend on how he feels (Tuesday). He's in the training room now and I don't think they felt like this was anything serious." Still, Walker said that he expects to miss Wednesday's game as a precaution. "Probably just a few days," Walker said. "It's nothing major. It's nothing big to worry about. Just a straight knee-on-knee hit. I'll be fine."