March Madness is still rolling right along. Another weekend brought us another slate of awesome games and gave NBA folks more fodder for their scouting notebooks. While many of the top prospects, such as Andrew Wiggins, Jabari Parker and Marcus Smart, were eliminated in the first week of play, there were still plenty of great draft prospects playing this weekend to evaluate, and NBA scouts and GMs were all over the country last week taking it in. Some prospects shined, while others struggled mightily. Here's the latest feedback from NBA GMs on a number of top prospects. Also be sure to check out our updated Top 100 and our updated Lottery Mock Draft. The Final Four teams The Kentucky kids As Kentucky's starting five freshmen cut down the nets on their way to the Final Four, NBA scouts -- and everyone else, for that matter -- were rapidly re-evaluating this team. Before the season, Kentucky was the preseason No. 1 team in the country. We had seven Kentucky players on our first Big Board of the season, four of them in the lottery. A month ago, the narrative was pretty straightforward. With the possible exception of Julius Randle, this freshman class had been vastly overrated; everyone on the team was a mild to major disappointment. The days of anointing elite freshman recruiting classes as title contenders were over. Then this team started playing together. Players grew up and improved. Now, after knocking off Kansas State, Wichita State, Louisville and Michigan to get to the Final Four, the Wildcats are for real, and NBA scouts who wrote them off as disappointments are begrudgingly admitting that perhaps the youngsters just needed some time. To continue reading this article you must be an Insider Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Chad FordSenior Writer, NBA Insider Follow Archive Senior NBA Writer for ESPN.com ESPN Insider NBA Draft Analyst since 2002 Writes ESPN's NBA Draft Top 100 and Lottery Mock Draft