Layne Murdoch/NBAE/Getty ImagesVictor Oladipo is a star on the rise, but who will replace him while he's recovering from a facial injury? If your nights have looked anything like mine over the past few weeks, they have been filled with mock drafts and real fantasy drafts followed by more mock drafts and real fantasy drafts. Now that the start of the NBA season is here, with three games tipping off Tuesday night, all of that is finally over. And if your significant other is anything like mine, a sense of relief has come over the house. "Don't worry, no more drafts until fantasy baseball in March," I assured my wife. What she astutely pointed out, though, is that this is only the beginning. And she's right ... as usual. Winning in fantasy basketball requires more than a strong draft; it takes six or seven months of making good lineup decisions, overcoming injuries and, maybe most importantly, finding undervalued talent that can help along the way. It's that last part that is the most fun, if you ask me, and one of the best ways to locate the next under-owned, high-impact fantasy stud is to take a look around the league at the big position battles. The reason is simple: Players who are insignificant backups one day can vault into prominence a game later with one change to the rotation, much like Kendall Marshall did after being signed by the Los Angeles Lakers last season. Where are some of these situations as we get set to enter a new season? Here's a look at some of the ones I'll be keeping an eye on, and you can follow me on Twitter for more daily updates at @joekaisersports. To read all of Joe Kaiser's fantasy spin on the latest NBA roster moves, you must be an ESPN Insider. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Joe KaiserFantasy, Insider Follow Archive Fantasy basketball, NBA analyst for Insider NBA, MLB analyst for Rumor Central