With LeBron James back in uniform, the Cleveland Cavaliers are expected to win more games than any other team, according to one Las Vegas sportsbook. But it's close. The Westgate SuperBook posted its NBA season win totals Tuesday. The SuperBook opened the Cavaliers' season win total at 58.5. The Oklahoma City Thunder (57.5), defending champion San Antonio Spurs (56.5), Chicago Bulls (55.5), Los Angeles Clippers (55.5) and Golden State Warriors (50.5) also are projected to win 50-plus games. Last season, the SuperBook set the Cavs' season win total at 40.5. Cleveland went 33-49 but significantly upgraded its roster with the return of James and the trade for All-Star forward Kevin Love. In James' first seven seasons in Cleveland, the Cavaliers averaged 50.7 wins. They averaged just 24.5 wins the previous four years while James was with the Miami Heat. "The Cavs' number was made with their new team in relation to the East and past years' numbers that we used for the Heat," said Jeff Sherman, head NBA oddsmaker for the SuperBook. "Their number is slightly lower than Heat's in the LeBron years, with this being the Cavs' new players first year together." The Heat's win total last season was 60.5. Without James, this year's number at the SuperBook is 43.5. The Indiana Pacers also saw their win total plummet, down to 32.5 from last year's mark of 52.5. All-Star forward Paul George suffered a season-ending injury in a scrimmage while playing for Team USA in August. The Pacers also saw forward Lance Stephenson depart for the Charlotte Hornets. Sherman said his adjustment on the Pacers' win total was the most significant of any team from last season to this season. For the second straight season, the Philadelphia 76ers are projected to win the fewest games at just 15.5. That's nine fewer games than the next-lowest team, the Milwaukee Bucks. "The West was much easier to make than the East," Sherman said. "The change with the Heat and how improvement from young teams like the Bucks and Magic were the most discussed." Westgate is the first Nevada sportsbook to release NBA win totals for the 2014-15 season. The NBA preseason begins Saturday, with the Heat hosting the New Orleans Pelicans. The regular season tips off Oct. 28.