AKRON, Ohio -- LeBron James signed a contract with the Cleveland Cavaliers that is for just two years and includes a clause that could allow him to be a free agent next summer. On Friday, though, he said he's not planning to enter free agency again next year. "My No. 1 goal is to win a championship here; it'd be the greatest achievement in my life," James said. "I don't plan on going nowhere. I don't have the energy to do it again." James spoke before his annual charity event here for schoolchildren, which this year included a welcome home rally attended by more than 25,000 people at the University of Akron's football stadium. James signed the short-term deal with the Cavs, which can be worth $42 million, with the belief that changes to the salary cap could enable him to significantly increase his salary. The expectation is that the salary cap and max-contract level could jump dramatically in 2016 after new television deals are signed. "At the end of the day, I'm a businessman as well," James said. "I know what is going on in the league." Despite these assurances, the Cavs have been attempting to improve their roster since acquiring James to help cement his long-term commitment. They signed former Miami Heat forward Mike Miller, whom James called one of his favorite teammates ever, and James Jones. They are also attempting to land All-Star Kevin Love in a trade with the Minnesota Timberwolves and veteran defensive specialist Shawn Marion in a free-agent deal. James said even with these moves, he's not expecting the team to come together quickly. "Even with the veterans we've brought in, even if we're able to acquire Kevin Love two weeks from now, it's still going to be a process," James said. "I know that firsthand. It was a process when I was in Cleveland. It was a process in Miami. It's going to be a challenge." James has been in touch with several of his new teammates and has been active as a recruiter in attempting to add players like Marion and Ray Allen to the Cavs, as well as discussing possibilities with Love. He said he's looking forward to being a part of a good and developing team. "I love Kyrie [Irving]'s game; I think he can be one of the best point guards in our league," James said. "I love the chip on Dion [Waiters]' shoulder. Everyone else sees it as a negative, but I look at it as a positive and I look forward to getting with him. I love how active Tristan [Thompson] is. You give me nine Andy [Varejaos] and I'll be the 10th guy ... I understand it's going to be a process. I'm going to have to teach and lead and inspire those guys."