LOS ANGELES -- The Los Angeles Clippers' ownership situation is still in flux but that didn't stop Doc Rivers from getting a promotion Monday and restructuring the basketball operations department. Rivers, who held the title of senior vice president of basketball operations and head coach last season, will take on the title of president of basketball operations and continue as head coach, the team announced Monday. After Clippers owner Donald Sterling was banned for life from the NBA and fined $2.5 million by commissioner Adam Silver for racist remarks he made that were published by TMZ, Rivers essentially became the face and voice of the team. Not only was Sterling out, but Clippers president Andy Roeser was forced to take an indefinite leave of absence. There was no one above Rivers in the decision-making process for much of the playoffs. Rivers was hired to be the coach of the Clippers last year, but in the aftermath of Sterling's lifetime ban, he took on a far greater role. He consoled disgruntled employees, addressed league officials and was consulted when the league appointed Dick Parsons as the interim CEO. When Parsons took the job, he said he viewed Rivers as a partner rather than an employee. "I don't know if I'm doing a good job. I just know I'm doing my job," Rivers said when asked about his expanded role last month. "There's no quick solution to this. There's no banner we're going to hang, and everybody's going to be good. We have to redo it." Kevin Eastman, who served as an assistant coach with the Clippers last season and has been an assistant with Rivers for nine years, will move into the role of vice president of basketball operations and will supervise all facets of the Clippers' basketball operations department. Dave Wohl will become the general manager of the Clippers after working as the team's director of professional scouting last season. As general manager, Wohl will direct the Clippers' player personnel, draft and trade decisions. Working directly under Wohl will be assistant general manager Gary Sacks, director of scouting Gerald Madkins and assistant director of scouting Jason Piombetti. The Clippers also added Jud Winton to the basketball operations staff as director of analytics. "I am extremely excited to work closely with Kevin, Dave and Gary in their new roles as we continue to move the culture of the Clippers forward," Rivers said. "Our goals are not only to become a championship team, but a championship organization as well. I feel with the new structure of the basketball operations department, we have taken a positive step in that direction."