Richard Rowe/NBAE via Getty ImagesDespite six postseason appearances, Paul has never played past the second round. So, what do we do with Chris Paul's career so far? Let's take a look at his résumé. • Nine brilliant regular seasons at point guard. Seven All-Star appearances. Finished top-5 in MVP voting four times and top-10 five times. • Led the league in assist rate four times. Is one of three players to average at least 18 points, nine assists and four rebounds in his career (Magic Johnson and Oscar Robertson are the other two). • Named to five All-Defensive teams and a sixth likely on the way. Has led the NBA in steals per game six times. • Owns the second-highest career player efficiency rating (25.6) among active players behind LeBron James. Ranks No.1 in career win shares per minute among active players and fourth all-time. On these individual merits, he's destined to be one of the best point guards to ever play the game. Heck, advanced metrics have placed him on target to be one of the best ever, regardless of position. But then there's this staggering fact that on Friday seems to hang above all: Six postseasons, zero trips past the second round. Oh. Paul's season ended on Thursday just like all eight that came before it: without a trip to the NBA's final four. Paul's postseason disappointments are not limited to his professional career. In two years at Wake Forest, Paul never made it out of the Sweet 16 despite his team being seeded at No. 2 and No. 4 in his regions. This does not compute. How can a player so good have such a shallow playoff career? To read more about the potential in Chris Paul's legacy, you must be an ESPN Insider. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Tom Haberstroh Archive ESPN.com NBA analyst since 2010 ESPN.com Insider researcher in 2009 Developer of NBA DRAFT Initiative database