NEW YORK -- New York Knicks forward Metta World Peace had fluid drained from his left knee Monday, league sources told ESPNNewYork.com. World Peace will miss Tuesday's game against the Detroit Pistons. His status for Wednesday's game against the Indiana Pacers is uncertain. World Peace missed Saturday's game against the Atlanta Hawks with left knee soreness. When the discomfort didn't subside, the team recommended that World Peace get fluid drained from his knee, sources said. The procedure is believed to be a minor one. World Peace, 34, is expected to return to the floor by the end of the week at the latest. It's worth noting, though, that World Peace underwent surgery to repair a torn meniscus in the same knee in late March while with the Los Angeles Lakers. He was originally expected to miss at least six weeks but returned to the court just 12 days later. On Monday, Knicks coach Mike Woodson said World Peace would not travel with the team to Detroit due to a death in the family. His sister, Shalice Holmes-Taylor, died earlier this month. "Our condolences goes out to his family and Metta. But he'll return soon," Woodson said. Woodson was asked whether World Peace's knee was part of the reason for his absence, but he did not give a direct answer. With World Peace and Tyson Chandler (fractured right fibula) out, the Knicks (3-6) figure to be compromised on defense, particularly on the interior. The Pistons feature a front line of Josh Smith (6-foot-9), Andre Drummond (6-10) and Greg Monroe (6-11). Woodson said Monday that he would consider inserting power forward Kenyon Martin into the starting lineup to give the Knicks a chance to compete with Detroit's big front line. In other injury news, point guard Raymond Felton has been playing through hamstring soreness and, according to a report, a pinched nerve in his hip. Felton told The New York Times that he has been taking medicine for the pinched nerve, which he said sends a shooting pain down his leg. His status for Tuesday's game against Detroit is uncertain. If Felton can't play, backup point guard Pablo Prigioni likely will start in his place.