The NBA draft is in the books. Here are some thoughts on a busy night in Brooklyn: • Andrew Wiggins and Jabari Parker going 1-2 was not a surprise. I was shocked that the Sixers took Joel Embiid third and ended up with Dario Saric. I just don't get it. I feel for coach Brent Brown. Embiid will not be ready right away, and Saric cannot be a factor as he is under contract in Turkey for at least the next two seasons. What's more, Nerlens Noel remains a question mark coming off a season-long injury layoff. I feel bad for the coach. I just do not get those decisions. • Orlando really improved with its moves. Aaron Gordon is so athletic and will be a solid pro for years to come. Elfrid Payton out of Louisiana-Lafayette saw his stock rise. His quickness will make him a major factor as well. • Three guys who went too low and will be better than where they were picked: Gary Harris of Michigan State, Shabazz Napier of Connecticut and Rodney Hood of Duke. • The Heat really helped themselves big-time by adding Napier.  Pat Riley struck gold with this move. Napier will have a chip on his shoulder once again and prove the experts wrong. Maybe LeBron James wanted him! I give Miami an A! • Julius Randle will be a 15-10 guy for the Lakers from the start. It was a solid pick by L.A. • Doug McDermott was picked by Denver but traded to Chicago. The Bulls needed scoring, and they got it in the form of a guy who was super at the collegiate level. This should work out well for Bulls fans. • Mitch McGary was a risky pick for the Thunder because of his back. His size and passing skills, plus his rebounding ability, makes him worth the risk. • I liked what Phoenix did, getting T.J. Warren and Tyler Ennis. This is a team that has really turned the corner. • The rich get richer as San Antonio picked versatile Kyle Anderson out of UCLA. R.C. Buford and company have an incredible track record. • Every year, there are underclassmen who slip into the second round and lose out on first-round guaranteed money. Guys such as DeAndre Daniels, K.J. McDaniels, Jerami Grant, Jarnell Stokes, Spencer Dinwiddie and Glenn Robinson III saw their stock drop a bit. Detroit (Dinwiddie) and Minnesota (Robinson III) made solid picks.