LOS ANGELES -- Former New York Knicks coach Mike Woodson will join the Los Angeles Clippers' coaching staff as an assistant, sources confirmed. Woodson, who coached the Knicks for the better part of the past two seasons and was the coach of the Atlanta Hawks from 2004 to 2012, will join Doc Rivers' staff, which lost three assistant coaches this offseason. The Clippers lost associate head coach Alvin Gentry, who left for the same position with the Golden State Warriors, and assistant coach Tyrone Lue, who left to become the associate head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers. Assistant coach Kevin Eastman was promoted to vice president of basketball operations. Rivers previously said he was looking to replace all three on his staff. Lawrence Frank, who was an assistant coach under Rivers with the Boston Celtics during the 2010-11 season, is a leading candidate to join the Clippers, sources told ESPNLosAngeles.com, as are former Milwaukee Bucks coach Larry Drew and Washington Wizards assistant Sam Cassell. The Clippers also officially announced the signings of center Spencer Hawes and Jordan Farmar as soon as the NBA's moratorium on deals was lifted late Wednesday night. Hawes signed a four-year, $23 million deal with a player option in the fourth year that will take up the team's midlevel exception, while Farmar signed a two-year, $4.2 million deal that includes a player option in the second year, sources said. The Clippers used their biannual exception for the deal after Darren Collison agreed to join the Kings on Thursday for a three-year, $16 million deal. Hawes, 26, averaged 13.2 points, 8.3 rebounds and 3.0 assists per game last season with the Philadelphia 76ers and Cavaliers. Almost as important for the Clippers, Hawes hit better than 41 percent from 3-point range and nearly 45 percent while he was in Cleveland. Farmar, 27, averaged 10.1 points, 4.9 assist and 2.5 rebounds last season for the Los Angeles Lakers after playing the previous season in Turkey. He also shot 43.8 percent from 3-point range but was sidelined for 41 games as he dealt with a variety of injuries.