Illustrated Big Man Archetypes The idea of categorizing the NBA's big men by their skills began, as so many brilliant breakthroughs do, in Las Vegas. As the Insider hoops team watched marathon summer league sessions, doubled down on every 11 and even enjoyed a Sim Bhullar-sized cut of meat, the conversation often drifted to the brilliance and versatility of budding superstar Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans. It seemed to us that Davis appeared capable of fulfilling every responsibility entrusted to a modern big man. And, in an age of increasing specialization, those roles are diverse and plentiful. So that got us thinking about the league as a whole and the universe of big men. How many different skills could we dissect? Which players were the most versatile? Which jobs were the most important? With those questions in mind, we launched our study. We first settled upon eight jobs for big men, four at each end of the court. After coming up with statistical criteria to objectively place post players in each category (they had to rank in the top quartile of players who saw at least 1,000 minutes of action last season), we used lineup data from NBA.com/Stats to determine the performance of lineups with and without each skill. The result is a reasonably comprehensive taxonomy of the NBA's power forwards and centers (97 of them), along with new insight on the importance of their varied roles. (And another testament to the creative magnificence of Vegas.) Check out the chart at the bottom of the story to see every post player who qualified. Note: Facilitators Measured by: Assist rate and elbow touches per game (via NBA.com/Stats) Examples: Marc Gasol, Joakim Noah, Josh McRoberts You know those bigs who catch the ball at the elbow, wheel on their pivot foot and find a cutter off a gorgeous, backdoor pass? Those are facilitators, and their presence in the NBA is growing. Last season, five big men (Noah, Kevin Love, McRoberts, Blake Griffin and Marc Gasol) averaged at least 3.5 apg, as their teams counted on them to initiate much of the offense. Those are the high-profile facilitators, but by combining assist rate with elbow touches -- one of the new statistical gems that SportVU's player tracking data has produced -- we uncovered several more.