Richard Rowe/NBAE/Getty ImagesBoth Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook likely will be sidelined for another month. Editor's note: Welcome to NBA Insider Daily! Devoted readers familiar with the "Per Diem" column can still look forward to both Kevin Pelton and Tom Haberstroh this season, and they are joined by fellow Insiders Bradford Doolittle and Amin Elhassan. Every day, one of them will tackle the big topics in the NBA from every perspective including advanced metrics, scouting and reporting. When the Oklahoma City Thunder beat the Denver Nuggets on Saturday, it was just the second time in the franchise's seven seasons in Oklahoma that neither Kevin Durant nor Russell Westbrook had been in the lineup. It will be that way for a while, with Durant (Jones fracture of the fifth metatarsal in his right foot) and Westbrook (fractured second metacarpal on his right hand) both expected to be out a minimum of four weeks. It's not just in Oklahoma City that the situation is unprecedented. It's hard to find in recent NBA history similar examples of teams forced to play without two superstars for an extended stretch. Diving into my historical database, I went looking for teams that had two players with winning percentage ratings of .650 or better (equivalent to All-Star level by the per-minute version of my wins above replacement player rating) play fewer than 70 games during the same season (not counting lockout-shortened seasons). I came up with just three examples, dating to the ABA-NBA merger: To read Kevin Pelton's full article on the history of NBA teams losing two stars at the same time, and the Thunder's outlook without Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook, become an Insider today. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Kevin Pelton Follow Archive Co-author, Pro Basketball Prospectus series Formerly a consultant with the Indiana Pacers Developed WARP rating and SCHOENE system