Scott Halleran/Getty ImagesOmer Asik is one of the league's best at setting picks and screens. A large swath of basketball goes unrecognized, uncharted and (essentially) undervalued by the metrics currently available. One aspect of basketball that fits this description is setting screens. Ask any coach of the value of having players (particularly bigs) who are good screen setters, and they will sing praises. These guys do all the dirty work, setting screens to create space and force favorable matchups, which take a toll on defenders. Screens are the lifeblood of most NBA offenses, so it should come as no surprise that bigs who set good screens are coveted commodities. That said, because of the lack of ability to quantify screen quality, we've probably undervalued (in terms of salary paid) good screeners. Until now. Using proprietary data from Vantage Sports, which tracks a variety of heretofore unmeasurable actions (like screening), we are now able to identify and attribute credit to individuals. The data were collected over a span of roughly two and a half seasons, giving us a large enough sample size to draw conclusions. For the purposes of this piece, let's focus on three specific aspects of screening (see explanation at the bottom of the story): 1. Screen frequency 2. Screen quality 3. Screen outcome So who are some of the players who give us similar production at a lower cost? Here are 10 of the best screen setters in the league on a budget, arranged by average annual value (AAV) of their contracts. Note: Tiago Splitter, Joakim Noah, Kendrick Perkins are among the very best at these screen-setting aspects. However, they are also handsomely compensated ($10 million, $11.1 million, and $8.7 million, respectively), so they were excluded from this list. RFA = Restricted Free Agent; UFA = Unrestricted Free Agent To read about which NBA players Amin Elhassan says are best at setting picks and screens at a fraction of the cost of a superstar, become an Insider today. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Amin Elhassan Follow Archive Video coordinator, college scout, Phoenix Suns Assistant director of basketball operations, Phoenix Suns MBA from Arizona State University