The Big Man Archetype Kevin Pelton tries to classify the varying skill sets of NBA big men across the league. Tags: NBA, Anthony Davis, New Orleans Pelicans, Al Horford, Atlanta Hawks, Kyle O'Quinn, Orlando Magic The Big Man Archetype NEXT VIDEO The Big Man Archetype The Big Man Archetype Kevin Pelton tries to classify the varying skill sets of NBA big men across the league. Tags: NBA, Anthony Davis, New Orleans Pelicans, Al Horford, Atlanta Hawks, Kyle O'Quinn, Orlando Magic NBA Top 3 Plays Of The Night NBA Top 3 Plays Of The Night Check out the top plays from the night in the NBA, including Jeff Green's huge dunk against the Suns. Tags: NBA, Kevin Love, Cleveland Cavaliers, LeBron James, Anthony Davis, New Orleans Pelicans, Jeff Green, Boston Celtics Blazers Burn Pelicans Blazers Burn Pelicans Damian Lillard and LaMarcus Aldridge combined to score 46 points in the Blazers' 102-93 win over the Pelicans. Tags: NBA, New Orleans Pelicans, Portland Trail Blazers, Damian Lillard, LaMarcus Aldridge, Anthony Davis Davis Blocks Two Shots In Two Seconds Davis Blocks Two Shots In Two Seconds Pelicans forward Anthony Davis blocks two shots by the Trail Blazers' LaMarcus Aldridge and Wesley Matthews within two seconds. Tags: NBA, Anthony Davis, New Orleans Pelicans, Fantasy NBA Illustrated Big Man Archetypes The idea of categorizing the NBA's big men by their skills began, as so many brilliant breakthroughs do, in Las Vegas. As the Insider hoops team watched marathon summer league sessions, doubled down on every 11 and even enjoyed a Sim Bhullar-sized cut of meat, the conversation often drifted to the brilliance and versatility of budding superstar Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans. It seemed to us that Davis appeared capable of fulfilling every responsibility entrusted to a modern big man. And, in an age of increasing specialization, those roles are diverse and plentiful. So that got us thinking about the league as a whole and the universe of big men. How many different skills could we dissect? Which players were the most versatile? Which jobs were the most important? With those questions in mind, we launched our study. We first settled upon eight jobs for big men, four at each end of the court. After coming up with statistical criteria to objectively place post players in each category (they had to rank in the top quartile of players who saw at least 1,000 minutes of action last season), we used lineup data from NBA.com/Stats to determine the performance of lineups with and without each skill. The result is a reasonably comprehensive taxonomy of the NBA's power forwards and centers (97 of them), along with new insight on the importance of their varied roles. (And another testament to the creative magnificence of Vegas.) Check out the chart at the bottom of the story to see every post player who qualified. Note: The chart is not a ranking, but rather a grid showing into which categories every post player (who qualified for the study) fit. Facilitators Measured by: Assist rate and elbow touches per game (via NBA.com/Stats) Examples: Marc Gasol, Joakim Noah, Josh McRoberts You know those bigs who catch the ball at the elbow, wheel on their pivot foot and find a cutter off a gorgeous, backdoor pass? Those are facilitators, and their presence in the NBA is growing. Last season, five big men (Noah, Kevin Love, McRoberts, Blake Griffin and Marc Gasol) averaged at least 3.5 apg, as their teams counted on them to initiate much of the offense. Those are the high-profile facilitators, but by combining assist rate with elbow touches -- one of the new statistical gems that SportVU's player tracking data has produced -- we uncovered several more. To read Kevin Pelton and Jordan Brenner's full article on the league's best big men according to eight key specializations, become an Insider today. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Kevin Pelton Follow Archive Co-author, Pro Basketball Prospectus series Formerly a consultant with the Indiana Pacers Developed WARP rating and SCHOENE system Jordan Brenner | emailESPN The Magazine contributing writer Archive Brenner writes for ESPN The Magazine and ESPN Insider. He covers the NBA and college basketball.