Howard Smith/USA Today SportsRoy Hibbert has played like an All-Star so far this season. But can he keep up the pace? Illustrated Big Man Archetypes The Miami Heat wanted nothing to do with Roy Hibbert all night. Whenever the 7-foot-2 behemoth stood near the rim, the Heat almost always pulled up for long-range jumpers. With three minutes left in the game and the score tied, Luol Deng finally decided to challenge the Pacers center at the rim. It did not go well. Dwyane Wade found Deng cutting to the basket where Hibbert lurked, helping off of Chris Bosh who was parked in the opposite corner. Hibbert slid over to meet Deng. Going downhill, Deng rose up with two hands for the dunk and the Miami crowd leapt to their collective feet in anticipation. Hibbert swatted it away with his right hand. Pacers ball. The crowd quietly sat back down. Hibbert knew he had it the whole way, right? "Oh, man. I thought I was going to get dunked on to tell you the truth," Hibbert said with a chuckle. "I thought I was finished. Luckily, I got it." Hibbert got the last laugh on this night. Without four starters from last season, the Pacers beat the Heat 81-75 on their own floor as Hibbert collected 16 points, 15 rebounds and three blocks. The Heat's only basket in the last four minutes of the game was a contested Hail Mary of a 3-pointer from Wade. Mostly because no one wanted to mess with Hibbert. This is Hibbert's calling card. Just as he did with the Deng denial, Hibbert turns great shots into bad ones. Even with a cast of benchwarmers-turned-starters, the Pacers are still one of the NBA's best defensive teams. After all, Hibbert's still there. But how long can this defensive dominance last? And with the extra responsibilities, will Hibbert fade again like he did last season? To read more of Tom Haberstroh's piece on how Roy Hibbert intends on staying strong all season, become an Insider today. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Tom Haberstroh Archive ESPN.com NBA analyst since 2010 ESPN.com Insider researcher in 2009 Developer of NBA DRAFT Initiative database