Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty ImagesKawhi Leonard seems to be taking the baton from Tim Duncan and Manu Ginobili. Roster Reloads (playoffs): Charlotte Bobcats | Chicago Bulls | Houston Rockets | Atlanta Hawks | Memphis Grizzlies | Golden State Warriors Toronto Raptors | Portland Trail Blazers | Brooklyn Nets | Washington Wizards | Indiana Pacers | Oklahoma City Thunder | Miami Heat Once again, the Spurs wowed the league with a brand of egalitarian basketball that left purists swooning. Once again, Gregg Popovich masterfully handled the rotations and minute loads for all his players, successfully sitting key players throughout the season without witnessing any drop in production or performance. Once again, San Antonio moved through the Western Conference playoff bracket while gaining momentum, making it to the NBA Finals. Once again, the Spurs put together dominant performances in the Finals, humbling the mighty Miami Heat for much of the time. And this time, there were no Heat miracles. For almost the entire season, San Antonio was lauded as the model franchise, playing the model style of basketball, and it looked set to win a title. But that's just as it was last season. So the question now is whether it can be repeated. Do the Spurs need to make additions? Could they actually get better? Here's a look at some of the options available in our final Roster Reload of the 2014 NBA playoffs. To continue reading this article you must be an Insider Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Bradford Doolittle Follow Archive Sports reporter, Kansas City Star, 2002-09 Writer, Baseball, Baseball Prospectus Co-author, Pro Basketball Prospectus Member, Baseball Writers Association of America Member, Professional Basketball Writers Association Amin Elhassan Follow Archive Video coordinator, college scout, Phoenix Suns Assistant director of basketball operations, Phoenix Suns MBA from Arizona State University