Getty ImagesIn hindsight, who should be the No. 1 pick of 2010? Paul George or John Wall? We've redrafted 2007, 2008 and 2009, so it's only fitting we redraft the last class to have completed its entire rookie scale years. The 2010 class has a few transcendent talents, but also more than its fair share of unfulfilled potential (so far) and unclear futures. The depth of this draft class is dotted with several "behavioral issue" prospects, and the overall talent wanes significantly beyond the top 10, making a redraft of only the lottery the sensible route to follow. 1. Washington Wizards | Actual Pick: John Wall Amin Elhassan's pick: Wall | David Thorpe's pick: Wall Thorpe: He's easily the most unique player in this draft class, and a rough start to his career seems to be past him, as he's finally been able to overcome injuries and the toxic locker room of his earlier years to blossom into one of the game's top young point guards. Elhassan: The Wizards chose wisely. Wall is the best passer among all of the "uber-athletic" point guards in the NBA, and he has the potential to be a dominant defensive player as well. His learning curve has been exciting to watch. 2. Philadelphia 76ers | Actual Pick: Evan Turner Elhassan's pick: Paul George | Thorpe's pick: DeMarcus Cousins Elhassan: George has developed into one of the top two-way players in the league, and I would have loved to see him line up alongside Andre Iguodala in what would have been the best perimeter defensive tandem in the NBA. George also would benefit from playing alongside two playmakers (Iguodala and Jrue Holiday), focusing his efforts offensively in catch-and-shoot and coming off screens rather than trying to create off the dribble. Thorpe: Philly desperately needed a franchise big man to pair with Iguodala and Holiday, and Cousins would have made Thaddeus Young a far better power forward. The Philly fans would have made Cousins grow up faster than the Kings did, that's for sure. Paul George is great, but I don't love him next to Iguodala. To see the rest of the results of our redo of the 2010 NBA draft, you must be an ESPN Insider. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe David ThorpeNBA Follow Archive NBA Analyst for ESPN.com Executive director of Pro Training Center Started coaching career in 1987 Amin Elhassan Follow Archive Video coordinator, college scout, Phoenix Suns Assistant director of basketball operations, Phoenix Suns MBA from Arizona State University