Jesse D. Garrabrant/NBAE/Getty ImagesProductive when healthy, Brook Lopez is a player around whom the Nets should build. Roster Reloads: Charlotte Bobcats | Chicago Bulls | Houston Rockets | Atlanta Hawks | Memphis Grizzlies | Golden State Warriors Toronto Raptors | Brooklyn Nets It's hard not to think about the 2013-14 Brooklyn Nets without terms like "wanton excess" coming to mind. Last season, the Nets paid around $95 million in salary and luxury tax to win 49 games, land a 4-seed in a mediocre conference, and end their season with a first-round defeat. This time around, Brooklyn will dole out in the neighborhood of $190 million for its roster, which won 44 games, a 6-seed in a bad conference and a second-round elimination. This kind of superfluous spending would make Caligula blush. But hey, it's not our money, so the concern is not so much the tiny dent the massive payroll will make in Mikhail Prokhorov's Great Pyramid-sized heap of cash. It's about what comes next for the random collection of future Hall of Famers and former All-Stars that comprised this season's roster. Most of the time, disappointment is the outcome for so-called super rosters, but the league's mega-rich owners always seem tempted to try the formula. With limited financial flexibility, no draft picks of consequence and a core on the wrong side of the aging curve, is there any hope for a better outcome in 2015? To read more of who Bradford Doolittle and Amin Elhassan say the Brooklyn Nets must sign, trade or draft in the offseason, become an Insider today. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Bradford Doolittle Follow Archive Sports reporter, Kansas City Star, 2002-09 Writer, Baseball, Baseball Prospectus Co-author, Pro Basketball Prospectus Member, Baseball Writers Association of America Member, Professional Basketball Writers Association Amin Elhassan Follow Archive Video coordinator, college scout, Phoenix Suns Assistant director of basketball operations, Phoenix Suns MBA from Arizona State University