AP Photo/Alex BrandonIf Derrick Rose can stay healthy, there is value on Chicago to win the 2015 NBA title. The San Antonio Spurs wrapped up their fifth NBA title on Sunday night, but the state of mind for sports bettors is to always be looking ahead. In fact, the LVH SuperBook posted its futures for next season last Monday, June 9, with the Miami Heat opening as the 2-1 favorite. The Oklahoma City Thunder were installed as the second choice at 5-1 with the Spurs at 6-1, though they've both since been bet down to 9-2 with the Heat raised to 5-2. The Los Angeles Clippers opened at 8-1 and are now 10-1 with the Chicago Bulls and Indiana Pacers both at 12-1 before a dropoff to the other hopefuls at 20-1 and above. The only other odds adjustment the past week has been the Lakers raised from 50-1 to 60-1. Obviously, there are a lot of unknowns when trying to find value on the betting board this far in advance, including whether LeBron James will keep his talents in South Beach or go elsewhere. We haven't heard which teams are planning to re-sign which players, and which players will opt for free agency, plus we're still a week and a half from the 2014 NBA draft. But that doesn't mean there isn't value to be had. Here are the best 2015 NBA title bets from yours truly, Dave Tuley, and handicapper Erin Rynning. Rynning's value bets Chicago Bulls (12-1) The Bulls have found it hard to catch a break, while dealing with the major knee injuries of Derrick Rose. Rose played in just 10 games last season, while already working back from ACL surgery before the dreaded torn meniscus sidelined him for the rest of the season. He's progressing from his latest surgery in hopes of at least practicing with Team USA this summer. To see the rest of the value bets for the 2015 NBA title, plus to gain access to all of Insider's gambling content, you must be an ESPN Insider. Sign up today! Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Dave TuleyESPN Insider Follow Archive Dave Tuley has covered the Las Vegas race and sports book scene since 1998 and runs his own website, ViewFromVegas.com. Erin RynningESPN Insider Follow Archive Erin Rynning has been a professional NBA bettor in Las Vegas since 2002. He makes over 1,000 unique NBA bets a season.