Tom Szczerbowski/USA TODAY SportsA defense-oriented guard, point or combo, would be useful to share the floor with Iman Shumpert. NBA Insiders Amin Elhassan and Bradford Doolittle break down the draft profile, needs and potential picks of the 14 teams eligible for the NBA draft lottery this year. With some help from Chad Ford's Big Board of top 30 prospects, we take a look at the New York Knicks. Personnel needs: Defense, athleticism, backcourt options Major need: The Knicks don't have a pick in the upcoming draft, and are the only lottery team that is assured of surrendering its first-round pick. But we're completists around here, and so the Knicks get a draft guide just like all the other non-playoff teams. Phil Jackson is rumored to be interested in obtaining a second-round pick, so draft night might not be totally useless for Knicks fans. Philadelphia's Sam Hinkie has cornered the market with five second-round picks, so Jackson should give him a call. What do the Knicks need? New York's isolation game resulted in the 10th-best offense last season, and whatever system offense is installed to promote more ball movement should at the very least result in the Knicks maintaining that level. (Assuming, of course, Carmelo Anthony is still around.) New York's defensive shortcomings were widespread, but it begins with a lack of quality backcourt defense. A defense-oriented guard, point or combo, who can share the floor with Iman Shumpert would be a significant upgrade. To read more of the New York Knicks' 2014 NBA draft guide, become an Insider today. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Bradford Doolittle Follow Archive Sports reporter, Kansas City Star, 2002-09 Writer, Baseball, Baseball Prospectus Co-author, Pro Basketball Prospectus Member, Baseball Writers Association of America Member, Professional Basketball Writers Association