GREENBURGH, N.Y. -- The reeling New York Knicks have lost yet another big man as Andrea Bargnani is out indefinitely with a torn ligament in his left elbow. The team announced that Bargnani underwent an MRI, which revealed the injury. The 7-footer injured his elbow with less than two minutes remaining in the third quarter of the Knicks' loss to the 76ers on Wednesday, according to the team. He took a hard spill on his left elbow during the game while trying to attempt a dunk. Bargnani remained in the game, making both free throws after the foul, and finished the quarter. He also played the first three minutes of the fourth quarter and finished with 20 points and four blocked shots in the 110-106 loss. The Knicks, who have lost five straight games, already are decimated by injuries to the frontcourt; Bargnani joins injured forwards Amar'e Stoudemire, Kenyon Martin and Metta World Peace. Carmelo Anthony and Raymond Felton also did not practice on Thursday, but they were given a recovery day, according to the team. Stoudemire (sprained left ankle and bone bruise) and Martin (sprained left ankle/tendinitis) have been out since Jan. 17. Their recovery timetable is at least two weeks. World Peace is sidelined with a sore left knee and hopes to return perhaps next week after undergoing platelet-rich plasma therapy. Bargnani, the 2006 No. 1 overall pick, is the Knicks' second-leading scorer at 13.3 points per game. He has started 39 of 42 games this season and is averaging 5.3 rebounds and 1.2 blocks. The Knicks are down to Tyson Chandler, Jeremy Tyler and Cole Aldrich as their remaining healthy big men going into the Charlotte game on Friday at Madison Square Garden. "I just think injuries have just destroyed a lot of things that we wanted to set out and do," coach Mike Woodson said on the "Stephen A. Smith and Ryan Ruocco" show on ESPN New York 98.7 prior to the announcement of the Bargnani injury news. "The fact that we haven't been able to practice that much, Tyson has missed a helluva lot of games this season, Raymond was in and out, J.R. [Smith] missing the first five games [due to suspension] -- it has just been kind of a roller-coaster ride for everybody. "But at the end of the day, we are still in the hunt. We are not out of this by any means."