OKLAHOMA CITY -- Thunder general manager Sam Presti said Thursday he hasn't considered trading guard Reggie Jackson if no contract extension is reached before the Oct. 31 deadline. "We don't look at [Jackson] as anything other than a core member," Presti said. "We want to invest in Reggie. There's not a lack of clarity in that regard. Figuring out how best we do that is my job. And I'm going to do everything I can because I believe that he's a great example of a lot of things that we try to do here. He was drafted, he's been developed by our coaches and our support staff and the next step is to keep him with us for a long time." About to enter his fourth season, Jackson is eligible for a contract extension, though if one isn't agreed on before the deadline, he would enter restricted free agency next summer. Of course, the Thunder aren't strangers to the situation, having traded guard James Harden shortly before the 2012-13 season after failing to reach an agreement on an extension. "That's just not something we've considered," Presti said about the possibility of repeating a trade with Jackson. "I think with him in particular he's a guy we see being here for a long time. It may not be something we get solved in October, but the system is set up to try and give you an early opportunity to do that and we'll try to take advantage of that. We want to get things done in advance if possible, but if not, we'll pick it up next season and do it in earnest again." Jackson's situation isn't directly comparable to Harden's for myriad reasons, but the two do share a common theme -- dynamic Thunder sixth men who possess an obvious desire to start. "I definitely want to be a starter in this league," Jackson told The Oklahoman in early September. "I don't think about ever coming off the bench for any team. If that's the role I'm put in, that's what I'm put in. But since the day I thought about playing in the NBA, I've always been a starter. Everything I've thought about, whether it be middle school, high school, kids leagues, I never envisioned coming off the bench." For the first time since 2009, the Thunder have an opening at shooting guard after former starter Thabo Sefolosha signed with the Hawks during the offseason. But the combination of Jackson's size and defensive ability could sway coach Scott Brooks to look elsewhere on the roster, even if there is a political angle to it in possibly keeping Jackson. "I wouldn't characterize [Jackson's comments] as troubling at all," Presti said. "It would be troubling to me if he wasn't confident in himself and didn't see himself as a very important player to this team. At the same time, we've never, ever in our history here had a situation with any issues regarding what's most important. And the most important thing, once training camp starts, is winning." The market for point guards in the NBA is rather saturated with only a few teams actively in need of one. But Jackson is rare because of his ability to play either guard spot. Last season, he started 36 times in place of an injured Russell Westbrook, while also starting three games in the Western Conference finals alongside Westbrook in the backcourt. The Thunder are keen on locking up Jackson long term before he hits restricted free agency, inviting the risk of a sizable offer sheet they may be unable -- or unwilling -- to match. After trading Harden, Jackson's importance to the Thunder skyrocketed with him filling the role of both a backup to Westbrook as well as a scoring threat off the bench. He averaged a career-high 13.1 points along with 4.1 assists in 28.5 minutes last season, and showcased his ability with a career-high 32 points in Game 4 against the Grizzlies, a game that effectively saved the series for the Thunder. "We're going to give it our maximum, best chance to make it happen, knowing that if it doesn't, we come back at it next summer and pick it up again," Presti said. "If it doesn't happen, all it means is it hasn't happened yet, and we're looking to continue to progress in those conversations."