SACRAMENTO -- Pau Gasol will not play against the Sacramento Kings on Wednesday after suffering a "severe recurrence of vertigo," according to the Lakers. After missing four straight games stemming from his initial bout with vertigo a week and a half ago, Gasol returned to the lineup Tuesday in the Lakers' 124-112 loss to the Portland Trail Blazers. The 13-year veteran finished with nine points, seven assists and four rebounds in 28 minutes against the Blazers but admitted after the game that he may have rushed his return. "I wasn't confident out there, I wasn't assertive enough, I didn't feel confident enough to make aggressive moves or turns because when I turned my head a couple times, everything was still kind of shaking," Gasol said. "So, it's a little bit of a process, unfortunately. ... Maybe it was a little too early in the process (to play in a game) because I didn't really get any contact during practices and stuff and didn't really go up and down. All we did was 5-0 and shooting, which is not like the game." Gasol was "pretty much incapacitated" in his Sacramento hotel room Wednesday afternoon, according to the team. It was unknown if Gasol would be able to fly with the team back to Los Angeles after the Kings game, or if he would have to spend time recovering in Sacramento before returning to L.A. on a commercial flight. Much was made about Lakers coach Mike D'Antoni's reluctance to play Gasol and Chris Kaman together in the starting lineup leading into the Portland game. Despite the Blazers outscoring the Lakers' big lineup 44-34 in the paint, D'Antoni's declared after the loss that he would give the lineup another chance even though it was unsuccessful versus the Blazers. Turns out the argument over whether the Gasol-Kaman lineup being effective is moot, as not only is Gasol out against Sacramento, but Kaman is considered a game-time decision because of a strained right calf. Kaman had 12 points (on 6-for-16 shooting), six rebounds and three blocks against Portland. The Lakers will still have big men Robert Sacre and Jordan Hill available, however, as well as Ryan Kelly and Wesley Johnson who have started multiple games this season at the stretch 4 position. Hill received a DNP-CD against the Blazers after coming into the night having scored 28 points twice in his last six games and grabbing 13 rebounds or more three times in that span. "It's been like this the whole season," Hill said after the game. "I definitely didn't expect not to play, but I definitely wasn't surprised. Like I said, it's been up and down this whole season. Thing happen and I can't do nothing about it but cheer on for my teammates and try to show the utmost professionalism I can and have fun with it."