OKLAHOMA CITY -- Russell Westbrook gathered the ball in the backcourt, busting up the floor with his head up and eyes scanning. With all five New York Knicks sprinting back, Westbrook found a slim crease and unleashed a ruthless in-and-out dribble to roast three defenders, lifting off for a soaring layup. It wasn't just Westbrook making a clear public proclamation that he's back, but it was more about the refreshed energy in the arena. The feel was different. The team was reborn. In a lot of ways, this felt like opening night for the Oklahoma City Thunder, the first game of an all-new season. "We have to play with a sense of urgency every night," Westbrook said. "I think now we've got to come and play every game like [it is] our last. We've got a lot of guys coming back and we've got to be ready to play." Westbrook didn't have a minutes restriction in his return from a fractured right hand but accidentally self-imposed one by sparking a blowout. In just 24 minutes -- 23:48, to be exact -- Westbrook blitzed the Knicks with 32 points on 12-of-17 shooting, eight assists and seven rebounds as OKC rolled 105-78. A 30-point cushion is the only thing that prevented him from a triple-double. "I thought he played incredible," Nick Collison said. "Just his style of play, the way he was coming off, finding people. When he plays like that we're tough to beat." Westbrook said at shootaround Friday morning he expected some rust, especially in having to adjust to playing with a protective cover on his right hand. But if there was any flaw in his performance, it was hard to find, with even Westbrook having to grin sheepishly as he nitpicked when asked about it. "Ah, s---, I don't know. I threw a few balls out of bounds, I threw a few balls out of bounds, man," he said. "I was just trying to take what the defense gave me, take my time making some shots." Westbrook has always been a supreme tone-setter, using his ferocity to establish an early energy to every game. He plays at a different pitch, embracing disorder and relying on emotion and sheer will to produce. And it didn't take long for him to announce his presence as he attacked relentlessly from tipoff, setting up teammates in the Thunder's first three possessions and having a hand in 10 of their first 11 buckets. "Just go and hope they follow," Westbrook said of setting the early tone. "My job as a point guard is to come out every game, bring the energy, the competitive spirit and hope my teammates follow. That's a part of my job, and that's what I try and do for this team. Westbrook admitted after the game he was eager to play, which was evident with how he sprinted off the bench upon hearing his name called in pregame introductions. The feisty point guard is always juiced up, but after a month of watching, Westbrook was ready to go. "You get so used to sitting on the side, coming back here, taking a shower, putting a suit on, coming out, sitting on the side," Westbrook said. "And now I got an opportunity to go out and hear my name called. You never want to take that for granted. Never any time, and I was just hyped to hear my name and run out on the floor." It's been a very obvious struggle for the Thunder the first month of the season, playing basically 15 of their first 16 games without either Westbrook or Kevin Durant. They've been remarkably competitive but also extremely unsuccessful. They've dug into a deep hole, losing a number of close games while they missed the kind of spark and cutting edge that a superstar like Westbrook brings. On Friday against the Knicks, though, everything was different. But to say it was merely the addition of Westbrook that did it would just be scratching the surface. It would be an unfair oversimplification of what really happened. Westbrook's presence alone didn't fix the Thunder. It's that all the good stuff they've been doing finally materialized. It was like Walter White and his mercury fulminate: just a little tweak of chemistry, and everything exploded. "The area that's not shown on the stat sheet is his ability to raise the level of his teammates," Thunder coach Scott Brooks said. "That's what the great ones do, and that's what he did tonight." Now, context is obviously key. The Thunder were playing a fairly terrible Knicks team that was without its best player, Carmelo Anthony, who sat with back spasms. They took full advantage of the situation, feeding off the emotion of the game to bury the Knicks within the first eight minutes. But the change in appearance was unmistakable despite the relevant perspective. The pace of the offense, the speed of the sets and the intensity of an already good defense went up another notch. The Thunder entered the game averaging an NBA-low 6.1 fast-break points per game. They had 17 against the Knicks. "I want to play fast. I want to play with good pace. That's what we want to do. That's how we want to play," Brooks said. "But [with the injuries] we had to put ourselves in a position to have the most success. We gave ourselves the best chance of winning by not playing as fast and executing in the half court and slowing the game up." Westbrook does not know the meaning of the word slow. He's the Ricky Bobby of the NBA; he only wants to go fast, and for the Thunder, that often creates the kind of controlled chaos in which they excel. One win over a struggling team doesn't erase the fact the Thunder are 5-12, still currently well outside the West's postseason picture. They have a long road ahead, one with a razor-thin margin of error. They can't afford any more lengthy injuries, and they can't have too many off nights. They have to be as perfect as possible from here on out. "In the past, even when we were winning we wanted to try and have that urgency to try and get our level of play where it needed to be to try and win a championship," Collison said. "Now, it's different. We're in a hole with wins and losses, so obviously, we need wins. It might be a little easier to preach that and for all of us to remember that because of where our record is at, but it's definitely important. We have to try and come out and win every game." The message from the Thunder all along through this adversity is to improve their standard of play, to build a better team for their stars to return to. Other players have had more opportunities, and in the long run, that might benefit the Thunder. And while the sample size is small, it appears the team Westbrook returned to isn't the one he left on Oct. 30. They're tougher, they're more together and they're deeper. Westbrook made it pretty clear he is back, and the Thunder might just be as well.