Bob Donnan/USA TODAY SportsThe Spurs outscored the Heat by an average of 14 points per game in the 2014 NBA Finals. This rematch of a classic, seven-game NBA Finals was supposed to be another thriller. Instead, we got a rout. And while the 2014 Finals won't go down in history as one of the most exciting or dramatic championship series, the San Antonio Spurs' performance in their five-game series win over the Miami Heat should be remembered as the most dominant Finals performance ever. Here's a look at a variety of eye-popping statistics that underscore San Antonio's dominance.  Hyper-efficient offense We start where the Spurs' victory began: at the offensive end of the floor. With its ball movement and outside shooting, San Antonio put on a clinic at times, particularly in the first half of Game 3. The Spurs ended up with a 124.0 offensive rating for the series, the best by any team in a Finals dating back to 1978 (the first year for which Basketball-Reference.com has turnovers by series). San Antonio's .528 shooting percentage was an NBA Finals record, but that doesn't tell the whole story of how well the Spurs shot the ball. They made 55 3-pointers -- more than any team has ever made in a Finals of fewer than seven games -- and shot them at a 46.6 percent clip. Effective field goal percentage, which accounts for the additional value of 3s by treating them as 1.5 field goals, does a better job of capturing San Antonio's efficient shooting. The Spurs' 60.4 percent mark blew away the previous record (55.5 percent by the 2002 Lakers). To read more about the numbers behind the Spurs' dominant Finals performance, you must be an ESPN Insider. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Kevin Pelton Follow Archive Co-author, Pro Basketball Prospectus series Formerly a consultant with the Indiana Pacers Developed WARP rating and SCHOENE system