St. Louis Cardinals catcher Yadier Molina joined Ivan Rodriguez and Johnny Bench in Rawlings Gold Glove lore, while the Kansas City Royals and Baltimore Orioles repeated their golden trifectas Tuesday. Molina won his seventh straight Gold Glove award, becoming just the third catcher to win at least seven in a row -- Rodriguez and Bench won 10 each. For the second straight year, Kansas City and Baltimore led all MLB teams with three Gold Glovers. Catcher Salvador Perez, first baseman Eric Hosmer and left fielder Alex Gordon all repeated as winners for the Royals. "We've said from day one, if you can't play defense, there's probably not a spot for you in our everyday lineup," Royals general manager Dayton Moore said. The Gold Glove triggered contract escalators for Perez, with the price of Kansas City's options rising from $3.75 million to $3,825,000 in 2017, from $5 million to $5.15 million in 2018 and $6 million to $6.3 million in 2019. Orioles center fielder Adam Jones and shortstop J.J. Hardy also repeated. Right fielder Nick Markakis, a Gold Glover in 2011, was selected again this season. Molina played only 110 games, his fewest since 2004, due to injury, but still led NL catchers by throwing out 47 percent of would-be basestealers. Molina ties Bob Boone for the third-most Gold Glove awards for a catcher. Rodriguez won 13 in his career -- three more than Bench. Gordon's 27 Defensive Runs Saved were the most among AL outfielders, while Perez led AL catchers with eight Defensive Runs Saved. Houston Astros pitcher Dallas Keuchel, who led the majors with 10 Defensive Runs Saved, won his first Gold Glove. Other AL winners include Boston Red Sox second baseman Dustin Pedroia and Seattle Mariners third baseman Kyle Seager. A pair of Los Angeles Dodgers (pitcher Zack Greinke and first baseman Adrian Gonzalez) and Colorado Rockies (second baseman D.J. LeMahieu and third baseman Nolan Arenado) earned Gold Gloves, along with Atlanta Braves shortstop Andrelton Simmons, Miami Marlins left fielder Christian Yelich, New York Mets center fielder Juan Lagares and Braves right fielder Jason Heyward. Gonzalez and Pedroia each earned a $100,000 bonus for winning and Hardy, Jones and Markakis will get $75,000 each. Gordon, Molina and Perez made $50,000 apiece and Simmons and Heyward earned $25,000 each.