AUBURN, Ala. -- San Francisco pitcher Tim Hudson says next season will probably be his last. Now, he won't leave without a World Series championship. The 39-year-old right-hander reached and won the World Series in his 16th major league season. He said Tuesday he plans to fulfill his $23 million, two-year contract with the Giants, then possibly call it a career. "I have one more year left on my contract, so I'm pretty sure that's going to be it after this season," said Hudson, speaking at Auburn, where he played in college. "I just started my workouts yesterday, which is kind of crazy to me. Just two weeks ago I was still playing and here I am having to get back ready for next season again. "I guess that's the price you pay when you play that late into the season come playoff time. But I'm going to work my tail off this offseason to get ready to go on to spring training in as good a shape as I can be and hopefully finish [next] season strong. It's been an unbelievable career for me." Hudson, who is hosting a charity event at Auburn this weekend, went 9-13 with a 3.57 ERA in the first losing season of his major league career. He started Game 7 of the World Series for the Giants after his 2013 season in Atlanta was cut short by an ankle injury. With 214 career wins, he'd had a pretty full career but winning the World Series brings "some solid closure to it." "It's one of those things where the older you get, you see that window gradually closing for your opportunities to accomplish that," Hudson said. "Last year, it couldn't have unfolded any better for me. Just going out there, being able to play in a great city, my family was able to experience something really cool living in San Francisco for the summer. My kids are old enough to be able to experience it and remember it. My son's 9, my oldest is 13, and those are some memories they'll be able to keep forever." He knows repeating that level of success next season won't be easy for the Giants. "It's going to be hard to duplicate the season that we had last year, but I think we have guys in the locker room in San Francisco that can do it," Hudson said. "I know I'm going to be ready to go."