IRVING, Texas -- Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo is feeling closer to 100 percent as the team enters its third week of organized team activities, but his offseason schedule will not change. Romo had back surgery in December, and the plan was to limit his work in the offseason. He has taken part in on-air drills and has thrown passes to receivers, tight ends and running backs, but he has been kept out of team and 7-on-7 drills. The goal is to be completely fit for the first day of training camp July 24 in Oxnard, California. "I don't think it's slow anymore," Romo told dallascowboys.com of his rehab. "I think earlier on, right after surgery, you kind of go through that mode of getting healthy, kind of having to not do too much right away, but now I'm to a point where you can push it and kind of go, and I feel like at this point I could play in a game if I had to. Obviously you wouldn't want to right yet, just to let it completely scar up and heal in all the areas that you want. But in the next couple weeks I think I'll be 100 percent." The Cowboys conclude their offseason program with their June 17-19 minicamp. Players can (and will) continue to work out without coaching supervision at Valley Ranch until 10 days before training camp starts. After having a cyst removed from his back last spring, Romo did not take part in any portion of the offseason program and spent time in Southern California, running mountains to work his way back into shape before camp began. The coaches and medical staff say he is far ahead of his pace from last year. "Your ultimate goal is to be 100 percent on Day 1 of training camp so you don't miss any time," Romo said. "That's what, starting this process, you were thinking. Now I feel good enough that I'm taking reps and doing things out there, but at the same token you want to be smart and not do anything to set it back, per se. But I don't envision anything like that happening at this point." With Romo limited and Kyle Orton absent from the voluntary workouts, Brandon Weeden has taken the first-team snaps, with Caleb Hanie and Dustin Vaughan working with the second and third teams, respectively.