WALTHAM, Mass. -- Over the first few days of the Boston Celtics' training camp, both players and coaches have gone out of their way to rave about newcomer Tyler Zeller's ability to run the floor. This amuses J.C. Hulls immensely. Zeller's former AAU coach in Bloomington, Indiana, is informed of the buzz and cackles in delight, well aware where the conversation is headed. A decade ago, Hulls had Zeller on his junior high AAU squad and jokes that he might have been the worst player on the team. But Hulls was certain that there was more talent below the surface and he pushed Zeller hard, particularly when it came to running the floor. "Steve [Tyler's dad] was sitting up in the stands, just rolling in laughter, he thought it was so funny that I was mimicking [Tyler] running up and down the court," Hulls recalled Thursday in a phone conversation. "I said [to Tyler], 'You have to be the slowest guy I've ever seen. You run like my grandpa.' He got so mad." So mad that Zeller almost quit playing basketball altogether. Older brother Luke was drawing heavy collegiate interest on the recruiting trail, including from a fresh-faced Butler assistant named Brad Stevens, but Tyler just didn't have the natural talent at that age. Two things happened: Hulls kept pushing and Zeller grew nine inches during his freshman year of high school. Now running the floor is the 7-footer's trademark and will help him compete for the starting center role with the Celtics this season. "I actually hated running as a kid," Zeller said. "[Hulls] used to make us run all the time in practice and I used to hate it. As soon as I got off his team, I started running a lot and he was like, 'Where was this when I was coaching you?' That's kind of where it came from." Hulls beams with pride now when he watches Zeller, even if he downplays his role in his development. The two crossed paths at a wedding of a mutual friend back in Bloomington last month and Zeller again told Hulls how much his prodding meant in shaping his career. "I was pretty brutal on him," Hulls said. "Because I saw it. I told Steve, 'Does he have any clue how good he can be? I don't think he had any clue.' "Tyler traveled pretty much with us and our family because Steve and [Tyler's mother] Lorri were with Luke. The poor thing, he had to put up with me, not only on the court, but then in the van on the ride down to summer [tournaments in Florida]. We were playing in Cocoa Beach at that time, and then we'd head over to Orlando. My gosh, I was on him all the time." Stevens, who recruited brothers Luke and Cody hard at Butler, remembers watching Tyler blossom as a sophomore in high school. It soon became evident that Butler didn't have much of a chance to lure him there when a national power like North Carolina was beckoning. "I'll give [Zeller] a lot of credit. When he was a freshman in high school, he was not as advanced as the other two [brothers] were," Stevens said. "It took him a little bit more time and work and he really grew into his body around sophomore year in high school. Then all of a sudden he took off. "I don't want to ever say that you can predict being a very, very good professional basketball player when you see somebody as a 14-year-old, but you could certainly see that he had the tools, strictly from the size standpoint, the work ethic, and he's always been able to run." Well, not always. Hulls recalls that those AAU teams were not the most talented (though Zeller would soon pair with Hulls' son, Jordan, on one of Indiana's top AAU squads). So he pushed the kids hard, hoping to get the most of them. Reflecting on all the running, Zeller notes, "I just wanted it to be over, basically. In time, I've come to like it and enjoy it." Last season with Cleveland, Zeller averaged a whopping 1.429 points per play in transition, according to Synergy Sports data. That ranked him in the 94th percentile among all players. Zeller shot 76 percent on attempts in transition and generated points on a whopping 71.4 percent of plays he finished. Even in the limited minutes he saw with Cleveland, those are eye-catching numbers. Acquired by Boston as part of a three-team deal in July, Zeller finds himself in a situation in which he could thrive. The Celtics needed more pure size and Stevens loves the idea of having a 7-footer who can run alongside the likes of Rajon Rondo, particularly as Boston seeks a more up-tempo offense. Stevens already has implored his team to find ways to put the ball in Zeller's hands when he runs the floor. As Stevens noted earlier this week: "I think we'll see a lot of [Zeller running the floor] this year. And we need him to do that." For his part, Zeller downplays all the buzz about his floor-running abilities. Told that his teammates have pointed to him as the biggest surprise of camp thus far, he replied, "When you ask that question, it has to be somebody new, so that really narrows the list down." But Zeller knows the opportunity that is in front of him. The Celtics have a jammed frontcourt with a surplus of interchangeable parts -- though heavy on power forwards -- and he's going to get every opportunity to earn a consistent role. He added bulk this offseason hoping to help him joust with the giants that inhabit the NBA center position. But few can run like Zeller. And, as impossible as it seemed back in the sixth grade, his ability to run might just determine how much he thrives in Boston. "It is something that makes me unique," Zeller said. "They say play to your strengths, and that's something I need to continue to do and continue to get better at." Zeller has thanked Hulls for giving him the foundation upon which to build his game. Hulls said he probably didn't feel that way back in the sixth grade. "I appreciate him saying that, but I'm sure he wasn't thinking I was giving him a great foundation," Hulls said. "He was probably thinking I was running a boot camp."