Jared Wickerham/Getty ImagesDerrick Favors averaged 13.3 points, 8.7 rebounds and 1.5 blocks per game in 2013-14. NBA Insiders Amin Elhassan and Bradford Doolittle break down the draft profile, needs and potential picks of the 14 teams eligible for the NBA draft lottery this year. With some help from Chad Ford's Big Board, we take a look at the Utah Jazz. Personnel needs: PG, SG/SF, stretch PF Major need: With Gordon Hayward's impending restricted free agency, the Jazz must prepare themselves to fill the swingman position. Hayward had a down season, including a shocking drop in 3-point accuracy (from 42 percent to 30 percent), but he was one of Utah's main offensive go-to guys and the second-best playmaker on the team behind Trey Burke. Plus, there's a strong chance he'll receive major interest from several teams this summer. Even if he comes back, Utah still was starved for spacing, ranking in the bottom third of the league in 3-pointers made, attempted and percentage, and had only two players shoot better than 36 percent from downtown (Richard Jefferson and Diante Garrett). Adding a stretch power forward or center would have a tremendous impact by giving the Jazz a third rotation big. Quiet need: Utah should not be reluctant to address the point guard position. While Burke performed admirably (Utah was considerably better after he came back from injury and made a strong case for rookie of the year honors), there is room for improvement. The backup PG was manned by a pair of third-string players in John Lucas III and Garrett, so if there's an opportunity to add a dynamic guard to either complement Burke or eventually replace him, the Jazz should take it. However, it's worth noting the Jazz have a good point guard prospect in last year's draft-and-stash player Raul Neto. To read the rest of the Utah Jazz's' 2014 NBA draft guide, you must be an Insider. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Amin Elhassan Follow Archive Video coordinator, college scout, Phoenix Suns Assistant director of basketball operations, Phoenix Suns MBA from Arizona State University