Kirby Lee/USA TODAY SportsGary Harris impressed in workouts this week with his elite shooting and ball skill ability. THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. -- The entire league is out in Los Angeles this weekend, but on Thursday, ESPN Insider got the best workout of the day. The Los Angeles Clippers have been holding a two-day workout for all 30 NBA teams largely consisting of second-round prospects. While they were there, I drove up to Thousand Oaks to watch some lottery picks and first-rounders represented by Creative Artists Agency and Roc Nation go at it. Michigan State's Gary Harris and Dayton's Devin Oliver did a private workout of ball handling drills and shooting. Kentucky's James Young, Louisiana-Lafayette's Elfrid Payton, NC State's T.J. Warren, Washington's C.J. Wilcox, Michigan's Glenn Robinson III and Oakland's Travis Bader went through a series of drills and three-on-three scrimmages led by Don MacLean for a couple of hours while I sat courtside. Here's what I learned. Harris' hot shooting Harris had to skip the draft combine last week thanks to a mild groin strain. He was still nursing the injury here in L.A., and his on-the-court work was limited to some jump shooting and ballhandling drills. The good news is that those are the two things that scouts will be watching closely in workouts, and Harris excelled in the workout. Harris shot the ball very well his freshman season at Michigan State, shooting 41 percent from beyond the arc. His shooting numbers dipped considerably the first half of his sophomore year before he got hot at the end of the season and moved the number up to 35 percent from 3-point range. To read Chad Ford's full breakdown of Gary Harris, Elfrid Payton, James Young and other top draft prospects, sign up for Insider today. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Chad FordSenior Writer, NBA Insider Follow Archive Senior NBA Writer for ESPN.com ESPN Insider NBA Draft Analyst since 2002 Writes ESPN's NBA Draft Top 100 and Lottery Mock Draft