AP Photo/John MinchilloJason Kidd's quick transition from player to head coach has not been a smooth one. What a way to start your second career. Your best player misses virtually all of training camp and 11 of the first 20 games due to injury. Your second-best player misses seven of the first 20 games, and one of your biggest offseason acquisitions has been punched out by Father Time. But that's not all. Your trusted friend and first assistant coach -- whose head-coaching career you essentially jump-started and whose unprecedented six-year, $6 million contract was all your doing -- started undermining you within weeks, according to sources. It was so bad that sources say you wanted to get rid of him before Game 1. Other sources say Lawrence Frank was merely doing what you hired him to do: be the de facto head coach. Whatever the case, it ended badly, with you demoting him to something akin to a secretary who can't attend practices or games. And to think, Jason Kidd could have easily been out West somewhere playing golf every day. Instead, he's on the firing line for the misdeeds of the stunningly inept Brooklyn Nets. I believe Kidd will one day be a good head coach, if he wants it bad enough to hang in for the long haul, and there's no question the season is too young and the injuries too great to give him any grade but an Incomplete. But at this point, it would seem impossible for him -- or practically anyone in his position -- to be a good coach. The precedents for Kidd were former players Doc Rivers, Larry Bird and Mark Jackson, all of whom enjoyed success after beginning their head-coaching careers without a lick of coaching experience. But unlike Kidd, those three were several years removed from their playing careers before they became head coaches. They had years to watch NBA practices, pick the brains of head coaches and make the transition from thinking like a player to thinking like a coach. To read the rest of the article about Jason Kidd's early woes as a head coach, sign up to become an ESPN Insider. Insider Become an insider and get access to all our articles and tools. Subscribe Sign in View Insider Benefits » Magazine subscribers: activate your Insider account. Recommend0 Tweet0 Email Subscribe Chris Broussard | emailNBA analyst Follow Archive Senior Writer for ESPN The Magazine Formerly at the New York Times, 1998-2004 Covering the NBA since 1995